SUBREDDITS REPRESENTED: AskFeminists, AskSocialScience | KEYWORDS: bias|prejudice | showing 78 relevant posts
relevant posts are sorted by score and all contain at least 1 comment 

-----------------------------------------

post score: 156 | r/AskFeminists | u/Throwaway5233779 | 71 comments | 2020-04-24 | https://redd.it/g774z8
POST TITLE: Was my late diagnosis due to a discriminatory bias?
Hi, I come here to ask about something personal to me that I've been thinking about for some time.
So I was officially diagnosed as Autistic last year, when I was 18. My councillor wasn't too surprised about this news and had suspected I had something undiagnosed.
The thing is, I've expressed concerns about my mental capabilities during the time I've been around them. (I've been seeing this org since I was 14), and wasn't until I was 17 they've decided to pursue a diagnosis of some kind.
I specifically talked about my lack of focus, frequent dissociation and struggles in academic environments and subjects. This wasn't just a off mention, I talked about it a lot during sessions, and talked to multiple people (teachers, school councillors, social workers).
I was wondering if my late diagnosis  could be due to the [discrimination](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gender_bias_in_medical_diagnosis), in that, I was not taken seriously or pushed away because I present as a woman and/or am a PoC. 
TL:DR ***despite expressing concerns throughout the years, I was only diagnosed last year. Was wondering if this could be due to gender of racial bias***
Thanks and apologises for any mistakes.

	comment score: 119 | u/GenesForLife
	There is definitely a gender bias when it comes to the diagnosis of
	autism as well as ADD/ADHD in women and women-aligned people. A big
	part of it is that medical professionals look for symptoms that
	typically manifest in boys and men and do not recognise that these
	conditions manifest differently in women.    Diagnosis is also harder
	for adults in general , since most stereotypical cases of autism and
	ADD/ADHD are diagnosed when one is very young.

		comment score: 54 | u/malledtodeath
		I was never diagnosed with ADHD as a child because I absolutely
		didn’t present the symptoms boys present. I had difficulty focusing,
		would lose interest in non favorite subjects, and could never turn
		in homework. Every teacher my whole life had the same general
		feedback, “She’d be such a great student if she just put in some
		effort” b because despite the homework I would always do great on
		tests and in class work. I think boys are typically more disruptive
		which is an inconvenience to the classroom, and tends to get
		everyone’s attention.

			comment score: 21 | u/ickyickyickyicky
			This comment could be in my memoir. I also invested a lot of my
			identity in being smart and I was really confused when I was not
			very high in the graduation rankings.The way people explained
			things... I always felt like I was bracing for something more
			complicated but when I finally really understood something it's
			always like, "that's it?" I ended up having a total mental
			breakdown in college and dropped out which took a serious toll on
			my perception of self. Then I get adhd diagnosed at 30. To say I
			was livid is an understatement. Were you angry? It feels like an
			all so obvious a conclusion when you take 2 seconds to read what
			adhd actually is for women. I feel very let down and simultaneously
			guilty for feeling that way.

				comment score: 16 | u/malledtodeath
				I was especially angry when my mom died, and I read all of my
				childhood report cards while cleaning out her home. I felt so much
				heartbreak for the bored under challenged little girl that I was
				growing up. I just can’t believe how little anyone tried to
				intervene to elevate my learning. If I had any kind of additional
				support from an IEP or 504 plan I would have had a completely
				different life. I was made to feel constant shame with no tools
				offered to correct the problem.

					comment score: 5 | u/ickyickyickyicky
					> I was made to feel constant shame with no tools offered to
					correct the problem. This hit me so hard. I'm so sorry this
					happened to both of us. It is appalling the lack of support for
					young girls. Sometimes I feel doubt about the legitimacy of the
					mental health issues I have. The thing that usually snaps me out
					of that with regard to ADHD is that my mom said repeatedly when I
					was younger was that I could do anything very well as long as I
					was interested in it but I wasn't interested in everything. It
					makes me feel like I could have had a different life, too, but
					now all I can be is what I'm doing now. It makes me want to
					really help younger women, like if I could make a program to work
					with young women specifically I think it would be very
					fulfilling. Give them the advocate they deserve.

			comment score: 2 | u/desitjant
			Hmm, I'm male and this is what my ADHD has always been like. Wonder
			if thats why I was never diagnosed until adulthood.

				comment score: 7 | u/malledtodeath
				If you’re not disruptive they dgaf.

		comment score: 23 | u/idontreallylikecandy
		Yep.  My insurance doesn’t want to pay for stimulants because I was
		diagnosed with ADHD at 32.  They’re like, oh we will cover it for a
		year but then we need to revisit it—like I might not have adhd after
		a year, I’m guessing because I’m an adult?

			comment score: 10 | u/SarcasticAutumnFae
			That’s pretty common for stimulants and other controlled
			substances, ppl get bunk prescriptions to sell stuff all the time.
			My college roommate was on adderall (sp?) and had to get a written
			justification from her dr to her insurance co every few months to
			get a new set of refills. They used the same phrase, “revisit,” as
			though her ADHD would magically disappear. It may eventually wane,
			or change in some way over her lifespan, but no way was it going to
			just up and leave one day.

				comment score: 3 | u/idontreallylikecandy
				I did not know that—this makes that make a little more sense I
				suppose.  It was just such a long process to get it confirmed and
				was so frustrating.  I never sold my pills ever.  And I also never
				had this issue filling a Vicodin prescription or anything like
				that, so I guess I didn’t make that connection.

					comment score: 6 | u/SarcasticAutumnFae
					I remember once her insurance changed and they didn’t like the
					doc’s justification  he had been using every time up to that
					point, so there was all this back and forth and she nearly ran
					out while they were hemming and hawing  about a couple of words.
					I get why they do it but it’s so dumb. The people who need it
					really need it.

						comment score: 4 | u/idontreallylikecandy
						Yeah I haven’t had it for several months now and it has been
						pretty rough, especially “working” from home.  (Which I am
						supposedly doing right now. Lol.)

							comment score: 2 | u/SarcasticAutumnFae
							Oh no!! That sounds awful. I hope you get it soon!

					comment score: 2 | u/desitjant
					Some of the crackdown on stimulants is relatively recent,
					coinciding with the opioid epidemic.

			comment score: 1 | u/TeaJanuary
			Someone I'm close to is visually impaired and have to get his
			vision checked regularly because of some state benefits (a small
			amount of money and cheap public transport I think?). It's not like
			he would suddenly start to see well or something but that's the
			rule I guess.

		comment score: 0 | u/Chasew301
		Not as many studies have been done on women, so it’s not really the
		doctors fault as they are just going off what’s there. Doing studies
		is hard.

	comment score: 63 | u/Ann3Nym
	Women are very lately diagnosed with autism (usually in their 30s)
	because they show other sign than men and - as usual - women's health
	is less researched than men's. So, this might not be an individual
	issue but the general lack of knowledge of female health as well as
	the social distrust to women's observations.

		comment score: 29 | u/moosepuggle
		Yup. There's research lately to try to determine what autism looks
		like in women and how it differs from the male phenotype. Here's one
		I've been reading.
		https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40489-020-00197-9

		comment score: 20 | u/Throwaway5233779 (OP)
		>Women are very lately diagnosed with autism (usually in their 30s)
		because they show other sign than men I believe this is more that
		women are able to mask more better, than different signs between
		genders. >as usual - women's health is less researched than men's.
		So, this might not be an individual issue but the general lack of
		knowledge of female health as well as the social distrust to women's
		observations. Is this lack of knowledge due to bias? As in, late
		diagnosis and misdiagnosis in women. This could explain the gender
		gap between autism diagnosis.

			comment score: 18 | u/raskolnikova
			> I believe this is more that women are able to mask more better I
			also think we are just under a lot more pressure to mask; I was an
			autistic kid with really combative, assertive, aggressive
			behaviours and I think that is "normalized" in *all* boys to some
			extent but viewed as aberrant behaviour in girls. Some autistic
			girls pick deferential/quiet behaviour up as a "strategy" in
			childhood and they just get read as "obedient" or "shy" ... I
			couldn't manage as a kid but in adolescence that was how my
			behaviour slowly became more "normal" (at the expense of my well-
			being in some aspects - i.e. I'm vulnerable to psychological and
			social manipulation).

				comment score: 8 | u/Throwaway5233779 (OP)
				Yeah, pressure I believe does play a role in womens' masking
				behavior. I was  erratic when I was a kid but when I became older
				I was pressured by my teachers, peers and family to act "lady
				like". Which kinda pushed me to be reserved and to suck it up. :/

		comment score: 9 | u/mimosaandmagnolia
		Yes! In my sociology class last semester we learned a lot about
		institutional discrimination, which is often based on privilege and
		groupthink. Women often experience institutional discrimination in
		medical environments.

			comment score: 4 | u/Ann3Nym
			It's also that a women's body isn't considered as "default" and
			produces outliers in the statistics during studies. That's why so
			much medication is not tested on women and we're the testing group
			after release.  The Thalidomide scandal in Germany is one famous
			and tragic result from this. It is why pregnant women don't get
			medication if it isn't absolutely necessary- and why studies are
			hardly made with women.

				comment score: 2 | u/mimosaandmagnolia
				This is an example of institutional discrimination as well!  I
				think another example is how shamefully doctors don’t even
				consider our uteruses as an influential part of the rest of our
				bodies and hormonal birth control isn’t considered when being
				prescribed other medications

		comment score: 7 | u/Asayyadina
		I only have anecdotal evidence but I have seen and heard of a lot of
		examples of women getting diagnosed only when their own children
		(usually a son) gets screened and tested for it. Might explain why
		women may get diagnosed in their 30s.

	comment score: 15 | u/GrumpyRPGReviews
	To play the Devil's advocate for a bit, it might have been an age
	bias. The tendency of adults to dismiss the experiences of young
	people and what they say because they are young.

		comment score: 8 | u/manykeets
		I have to respectfully disagree based on the fact that the vast
		majority of people with autism are diagnosed in childhood. I want to
		get tested for it myself, but where I live, I can’t even find any
		providers who test or treat adults, only children.

			comment score: 3 | u/Throwaway5233779 (OP)
			Yeah sadly, a lot of people seem to think that kids 'outgrow'
			autism and think its all fine and dandy for 'em in adulthood. Which
			is why there's barely no resources for adults.  I'm very sorry you
			can't find any professionals who can test you. Its seems to be a
			common for many autistic adults to find no resources.

		comment score: 6 | u/Throwaway5233779 (OP)
		That definitely could play a role

		comment score: 2 | u/StrungStringBeans
		>To play the Devil's advocate for a bit, it might have been an age
		bias. The tendency of adults to dismiss the experiences of young
		people and what they say because they are young. Given that, as has
		been well-discussed in this thread, women's belated diagnosis is a
		persistent and well-documented problem, are you suggesting that
		women are just naturally younger than men?

			comment score: 4 | u/GrumpyRPGReviews
			(deadpan) Yes. Yes, women are always younger than men. (/deadpan)
			In this case the OP expressly described herself as young, and the
			people she discussed as older than herself.

				comment score: -3 | u/StrungStringBeans
				I'm going to make this very, very explicit for you. Here are some
				well-established facts: \-Girls are less likely to be identified
				with ASD even when their symptoms are equally severe (Giarelli et
				al., 2010; Robinson et al., 2013; Russell et al., 2011). \-Girls
				with high-functioning ASD tend to be clinically identified later
				than boys (Giarelli et al. 2010) \-White children are more likely
				to be diagnosed with ASD than children of color Meanwhile, because
				autism is usually diagnosed at a very young age, especially with
				boys, so a statistically overwhelming portion of diagnoses are
				made by clinicians older than their patients. This is to say, it's
				almost certain OP's late diagnosis is related in some way to
				gender and race, and wildly improbable it's related to her age.
				What you're doing, which is pathetically common, is trying to
				undermine the real and well-documented existence of racial and
				gender bias by suggesting, in the face of all available evidence,
				that the discrimination that one is experiencing isn't really real
				and in fact is accusing the experiencer of being "too sensitive"
				or somesuch. It projects the idea that you can't complain of the
				discrimination you experience unless you can prove *beyond the
				shadow of a doubt* that it was gender- or race-based. You're the
				sort of person who claims that we can't know someone was being
				racist unless they're wearing a klan hood and shouting the n word
				(and even when that happens, people like you come armed to the
				teeth with possible ways it wasn't bigotry). You seem to think
				that claiming "devil's advocate" is a way to shield you from any
				blowback for the shitty opinions you hold. It is trying to put
				people on the defensive for daring to express their
				dissatisfaction with experiencing bigotry. It's a transparent (and
				frankly cliched) attempt at gaslighting, If that's not what you
				mean to do, then maybe go ahead and stop with your nonsense and
				reflect on why you refuse to acknowledge a fact so well-documented
				by so many peer-reviewed studies and confirmed by the experiences
				of so many people. It is the apex of male fragility and white
				fragility.

					comment score: 4 | u/oracular_duck
					You are both actually on the same side here. Dial it down,
					please. The other poster is not your enemy.

						comment score: 1 | u/None
						[removed]

							comment score: 3 | u/oracular_duck
							Have it your way.

					comment score: 1 | u/darkrelic13
					1. It wasn't gaslighting, not even close. People can hold
					opinions or advocate for positions in a way that you think is
					completely and utterly wrong, but it's not gaslighting just
					because you or the scientific and/or social authority present the
					opposing position. Taking this idea as gaslighting is how you get
					stuck and dig your heels in while the consensus changes. I would
					highly recommend you hold opposing ideas as something to learn
					from and sharpen your own position better. 2. OP was not saying
					that every person who experiences discrimination at the hands of
					the medical community are actually lying about it or need to
					prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that they were indeed
					discriminated against. I think you mistook their argument because
					you've seen it made before in a more negative light. In the same
					idea just because discrimination exists against a group does not
					mean each individual of that group who experienced negative
					treatment or care is automatically in the category of blatant
					group discrimination. People make mistakes, hopefully people can
					learn to make less, but no one is perfect. Some people just get
					bad outcomes when it comes to treatment or care. Should every
					individual work towards removing any biases they may have? Of
					course. Should we as a society work together to ensure positive
					outcomes and group equality? Of course.  3. This is where tact
					comes in. If you want to change someone's position or get them
					thinking in the right way, you need to talk to them and have a
					conversation. Blatantly attacking someone for having the wrong
					idea is how you get people to withdraw from learning anything.
					I'm not saying their isn't a time or a place for shutting down
					horrible ideas, there is. This is not one of those cases though.
					If you thought their idea had no merit, relentlessly criticizing
					it is not the ideal way to get through to them. We all make
					mistakes and hold wrong ideas. People need help, not to be
					criticized over and over. 4. I agree with you, I just don't agree
					with how you've decided to go about disagreeing with them. PS: Is
					the white male fragility thing really necessary in this case?
					Sounds like you are doing exactly as they were. People are
					individuals, please don't attribute negative stereotypes to
					people because you perceive them as a member of a group.

					comment score: -1 | u/GrumpyRPGReviews
					I never denied the OPs experience. I simply said it may have come
					from her age.  I have worked with children, as a teacher and at
					youth centers, enough to know that much like adults, most of them
					lie all the damned time. The American Psychiatric Association
					(APA) says that 5% of American children have ADHD, while the
					Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) puts the number
					at 11%. Going with the CDC numbers, for every real case of
					someone struggling with ADD, or even falling on the spectrum,
					there are about 9 cases of a person being lazy, self indulgent,
					resentful of being held to standards, sullen about having to
					work, and so on. People, generally speaking, are trash.

						comment score: 4 | u/KaliTheCat
						This is quite enough. Please refrain from making top-level
						comments in this subreddit from now on.

						comment score: 2 | u/memphisborn1962
						Wait, are you saying the CDC stated that 90% of children
						diagnosed with ADHD or autistism are just liars, with low
						standards, lazy, self indulgent and trash?  Or is that your
						personal opinion as a teacher?

			comment score: 0 | u/217liz
			I think it's just another possibility, not trying to negate the
			other ideas in this thread.

	comment score: 14 | u/cateml
	There is definitely reason to believe that at least *a part of* the
	difference in numbers of men/women and boys/girls diagnosed with
	autism is due to diagnostic bias rather than actual difference.
	Of course it could also be that more men/boys actually have it
	statistically, and then because of that people see it as something
	men have, so that then compounds the difference leading to under
	diagnosis in the women that do.      I remember learning back in the
	day that early in the existence of autism as a diagnosis, people
	theorised that it was essentially an 'extreme male-ness', though that
	has fallen out of fashion due to being bullshit. But that kind of
	thinking still permeates and may well lead to a subconscious bias in
	those assessing for autism (or teachers/parents making the judgement
	that an assessment is required) because they're not 'looking for it'
	in girls and women.      Another theory is that because girls are
	more heavily socialised, more encouraged to play social games etc.,
	they are better at masking social difficulties by learning to 'get
	by', and hence aren't diagnosed until later on.    Similar with ADHD
	(which a lot more boys/men are diagnosed with than girls/women). I
	remember reading a study as an undergrad where they'd compared a
	population diagnosed traditionally, and one done so 'blind' (so the
	behaviours children selected randomly - rather than by referral -
	were presented as a list without the assessor knowing their gender).
	And they found that the proportion of girls and boys that actually
	met the diagnostic criteria was very similar, in contrast to the
	normal system. Suggesting there is definitely a bias, either or both
	in the likelihood of ADHD being considered by people in the girls
	life and by the assessor themselves.       And like autism, it can
	'present differently' in girls - ADHD is associated in a lot of
	people's minds with boys running around being 'boisterous', but girls
	are generally socialised harder not to be like this. So girls may
	instead withdraw and appear 'day dreamers' due to the lack of focus
	and organisation associated.       I know I was diagnosed as dyslexic
	as a kid due to severe difficulties with focus and organisation
	(which can also be associated with dyslexia), and obviously I can't
	know for sure, but I have a sneaking suspicion if I were male it
	would have been diagnosed as ADHD instead.             So yeah, could
	be a mixture of not being taken seriously and the way that people
	'aren't looking for autism' in women and girls.        I don't know
	much about diagnostic bias in people of colour, maybe someone else
	does, but I see no reason to believe similar wouldn't apply.

		comment score: 2 | u/Throwaway5233779 (OP)
		>There is definitely reason to believe that at least *a part of* the
		difference in numbers of men/women and boys/girls diagnosed with
		autism is due to diagnostic bias rather than actual difference.
		Yeah, I defiantly believe there is a diagnostic bias between the
		sexes in some part >Another theory is that because girls are more
		heavily socialised, more encouraged to play social games etc., they
		are better at masking social difficulties by learning to 'get by',
		and hence aren't diagnosed until later on.   Yeah I learnt this from
		my councillor, which could maybe play a role in my late diagnosis
		>And like autism, it can 'present differently' in girls - ADHD is
		associated in a lot of people's minds with boys running around being
		'boisterous', but girls are generally socialised harder not to be
		like this. So girls may instead withdraw and appear 'day dreamers'
		due to the lack of focus and organisation associated.       Yes,
		this happened though the process of my diagnosis. In which, I was
		assumed to not fit the stereotype of a person with ADHD and Autism,
		and was dismissed by the school phycologist.  >I don't know much
		about diagnostic bias in people of colour, maybe someone else does,
		but I see no reason to believe similar wouldn't apply. [There does
		seem to be bias against minorities.
		](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4638275/)

	comment score: 14 | u/ingloriabasta
	I think there may have been a bias at play, however, in my
	experience, autism spectrum disorders just are diagnoses that
	challenge many health professionals, as it is a spectrum, very
	diverse, and we still come to learn a lot about it. Needless to say,
	quite a lot of colleagues have quite old-school perceptions, I've
	recently heard one say: "I will know within minutes if someone has
	autism. The challenge only lies with determining what the exact
	nature is and come to a conclusive differential diagnosis.". With
	that attitude, he would probably overlook a lot of females with
	autism. In general, though, keep in mind that it is rare, so from a
	clinical perspective, conscientious differential diagnosis *is*
	warranted. At the same time, it needs to be taken seriously, I am
	glad that in the end, you got the help you needed.  I recently got
	very frustrated- I have a scalp infection, I have had problems with
	sensitive skin for many, many years and recently it worried me a lot
	because it really got worse and my hair started falling out like
	crazy as a consequence. So I went to the dermatologist (who was
	female btw), and she discarded my worries by saying that at my age,
	this is probably hormonal and gave me a bunch of recommendations for
	hair regrowth shampoos. She didn't even look at my scalp that was
	red, itching, with dandruff and bleeding bits. I wanted to cry when I
	walked out of her office. That us women might have (medical,
	psychological) issues that are not caused by the very fact that we
	are females and therefore inherently biologically deficient (we are
	just being "hormonal"), seems to be unthinkable in health care.
	Excuse my cynicism.  Seriously, though- I must say that at least in
	some areas of health care the patriarchal structures are very, very
	evident and pretty much directly cause a lack in standard of care for
	females. Just to name an obvious example- child birth. At the same
	time, I have noticed huge differences between countries and also, of
	course, it largely depends on the person sitting across from you.
	They can, even in patriarchal structures, make all the difference.
	They just have to want to.

		comment score: 1 | u/mimosaandmagnolia
		https://vm.tiktok.com/7pYwHs/ This helps explain too!

	comment score: 8 | u/mimosaandmagnolia
	Personally I have PTSD and it took SO LONG to get diagnosed because I
	was assumed to have been trying to make excuses for my “erratic
	behavior” and kept being asked to explain why certain events were
	traumatic, which obviously I couldn’t speak candidly about because I
	had to suppress the memories in order to cope.

	comment score: 7 | u/raskolnikova
	I am another late-diagnosed autistic woman (dx last year at 22). yes
	the whole clinical definition of what autism is has been very male-
	focused for basically the whole history of the diagnosis up to this
	point. I have some readings on the topic I can send to you if you
	want, like academic papers that have been written about this,
	collections of interviews with other late-diagnosed autistic women
	etc. - just DM me Systemic racism is also a huge thing - I can't
	speak from personal experience but a friend of mine who is black,
	AFAB and autistic has spoken a lot about this. again, the whole
	diagnostic archetype of autism was based on people from middle or
	upper-class white families, so the different ways an autistic
	person's behaviour manifests and is interpreted in other cultures is
	overlooked, *and* people just tend to be a lot less sympathetic to
	children of colour ... children with ADHD, or children with eye
	problems who can't see the board, are accused of just "not paying
	attention" and so on. your intuition is definitely correct. I also
	have a paper I can send you about how autism is perceived/understood
	among Somali diaspora parents in Toronto if you would like to read
	that. data from Minnesota says that Somalis are one of the few
	racialized ethnic groups for which the rate of autism diagnosis is
	equal or greater than that of whites, but the way schools and
	institutions treat autistic Somali children is different, and the
	parents often object to their child being "medicalized", for good
	reasons: they see it that in Somalia the child doesn't stand out at
	all, and that their autistic behaviours only come out in Western
	environments. some of the parents attribute it to Western diets or
	other things (which makes them vulnerable to common pseudoscientific
	claims about autism) but I have a feeling it's actually very
	structured institutional environments that "bring out" the problems
	autistic kids have. please do reach out to me if you're interested,
	I'm very happy to share all this material with you.

	comment score: 3 | u/manykeets
	I’m a woman and didn’t get diagnosed with ADHD until I was 28, and at
	the age of 40, I have yet to get an official diagnosis for autism,
	although I know I have it, because it’s the only thing that would
	explain my entire life. I tried to convince my parents and counselors
	there was something wrong with me and I was different than other
	people from the age of 12, but nobody would listen. They said it was
	all in my head. They’d try to give me advice on how to do the things
	I just could not do, and I’d blame myself for constantly failing.
	Looking back, I definitely think there was gender bias, because boys
	don’t present the same. If you google symptoms of autism, anything
	you find that’s older, the symptoms they list will be male symptoms.
	Once I took an autism online test, and it had biased questions, like
	if you liked collecting toy trains and cars. If I just google “autism
	symptoms,” I often won’t have many of them, if any, but if I google
	“female autism symptoms,” I’ll have them all. I flew under the radar
	as ADHD because I wasn’t hyperactive and boisterous. Mostly the boys
	are hyperactive type, and girls are more likely to present as
	inattentive.  Despite having a high IQ, I flunked out of college
	because my issues with auditory processing made it impossible to
	follow a lecture, even with my ADHD medication, no matter how hard I
	tried. I struggle with simple daily tasks every day, and I feel like
	nobody understands what I’m dealing with because I can’t have my
	problems validated with a diagnosis, so it looks like I’m just lazy
	or a failure.  I talked to my doctor about my concerns that I was
	autistic, and he dismissed me after only having met me 5 minutes ago.
	If you go to the autism subs, you’ll see post after post of the same
	thing happening to other women. Women tend to be better at “masking”
	and figuring out how to pass as normal, which also poses a problem,
	because doctors are often looking for obvious tell-tale signs like
	lack of eye contact and “stims” like rocking back and forth. They
	don’t realize girls are more likely to teach themselves to make eye
	contact and control their stims so they can seem like everyone else.
	It’s great you were able to get your diagnosis, and I hope you get
	the best help and support as you navigate life. Don’t ever let anyone
	invalidate you. If you ever feel like a doctor isn’t taking you
	seriously, find another doctor.

	comment score: 2 | u/Flammablevegetables
	My therapist told me before I went for my testing that often women
	are less likely to get tested because especially in children, the
	'symptoms' are generally more obvious for males. Basically, if a boy
	is less lively and more reserved then teachers and parents are more
	likely to see this as a 'problem' and look into it. Whereas with
	women if we are more reserved as kids it's not as different.
	Obviously it varies individually. She said this was why more women
	were diagnosed late or not at all.

	comment score: 2 | u/majeric
	My sister was told for years that her vision problems were in her
	head... she needed glasses but her optometrist kept saying she didn’t
	need them.  If they can let bias affect their diagnosis about eyes.
	They can do it for brains.

	comment score: 2 | u/Hugsy13
	Something to understand is males and females have difference odds of
	having certain mental illness compared to the other sex. ADHD &
	autism are more common in males, where as something like bipolar is
	3x more common in females. I had issues where I wasn’t doing well
	responding to adult adhd treatment and I was eventually diagnosed
	with bipolar. Because I’m male it took them longer to realise what
	was wrong because adhd & bipolar look very similar from an outside
	perspective but odds are it was adhd because I’m a dude.

	comment score: 2 | u/Leia_Bryant
	I'm luck to get diagnosed in middle school. Autism spectrum
	(Asperger's) is almost invisible in us compared to men

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 2 | u/KaliTheCat
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct answers to posted questions must come from feminists and
		reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed; you will not be
		warned again.

	comment score: 1 | u/Puppetofthebougoise
	Yes.

	comment score: 1 | u/Aspirience
	For perspective: I am 22, female, white, from europe, and got
	diagnosed with autism not long ago. Since then (and the year before,
	as I had to identify the autism myself first to get the right
	diagnosis, like many other late diagnosed women) I’ve been reading a
	lot about autism diagnosis. About how to cope of course, but also
	about biases in diagnosis.  Now, I could give you my personal story
	about finally getting the correct diagnosis, but there are many
	already, so my input will be this: Yes. Yes it comes from bias, and
	it does not just kind of feel like it, as there are studies showing
	it.  • For girls (that study was only about kids up to teens, or
	something) to be diagnosed with autism the symptoms had to be
	significantly more debilitating and aggressive than for their male
	peers or they had to present with further conditions.  • For PoC (I
	don’t remember if there was an age restriction) recieving a diagnosis
	took significantly longer than for white peers with the same range
	and “severe-ness” of symptoms.  • Girls and women are generally
	diagnosed later in life, meaning they miss valuable early
	intervention The history of autism research was focussed on boys for
	most of the time, meaning the symptom description also comes from how
	boys with autism typically present. But from the moment we set foot
	in this world, boys and girls are treated differently, and different
	expectations are placed on us. Therfore it makes sense that autistic
	girls present differently than autistic boys. But science is still
	working on catching up here.  Explicit studies (examples) for further
	reading Jolynn L Haney, 2016 - gives an overview of gender bias
	research history Sander Begeer et al, 2009 - on minority bias and how
	structured ratings help  Katharina Dworzynski et al, 2012 - related
	to point one Rachel Loomes et al, 2017 - about male/female ratio and
	diagnostic bias Nicole L Kreiser et al, 2014 - gender bias Charles M
	Zaroff et al, 2012 - more about differences in ASD prevalence in
	studies, but talks about ethnic bias, too (a little)  Ashley J
	Harrison et al, 2017 - about bias in ADOS Paul Lipkin et al, 2015 -
	on mean age at diagnosis and how girls might be missed altogether ...
	But you can also just type something into google scholar and look for
	yourself!

	comment score: 1 | u/killyergawds
	I wouldn't discount that possibility. It's highly likely. I'm in my
	30's and have struggled my entire life. I never went to college, and
	I all my report cards essentially said "She's very intelligent, but
	she lacks focus and distracts other students." As an adult, I
	struggled in my professional and personal life with focus, finding
	motivation, and having anxiety and wondering why I was such a sack of
	shit who couldn't complete a damn thing. Finally, this year, I was
	diagnosed with ADHD. Like, I'm a textbook case. My symptoms check
	allll the boxes. But I was never diagnosed as a kid, because it was a
	"boy's issue." Fuck me for being a girl, amiright

	comment score: 1 | u/gwbjoyzodj
	I’m a male and it would’ve taken around 5 years for a referral
	diagnosis to take place if I hadn’t gone private I had a similar
	situation to yours so it sounds these things take time and younger
	people would’ve been put above you due to their schooling etc

	comment score: 1 | u/obsolete_android
	My partner was literally told as a child she could not have ADHD
	because she is a girl. Only now 20 years later going through the
	process of being diagnosed.

	comment score: 1 | u/Miss_mariss87
	Probably. I’m a 30 year old woman with ADD and probably low-level
	autism (self diagnosis because honestly who the fuck can afford
	diagnostic testing and what is even the point?). I wasn’t diagnosed
	with ADD until I was 27, but I’ve been visiting
	therapists/psychiatrist since I was 11 or so and started having
	severe, disassociating panic attacks.  It was always, “she’s nervous
	or manic-depressive” even though my depression has always been very
	mild and most likely a symptom of my brain being disorganized, not
	the cause.  A very old male therapist even told me once it was
	“because I was too promiscuous”. I had slept with like, 3 people at
	that point, not scandalous or “manic” behavior.  I always suspected I
	never had a mood disorder, because it was NEVER the case that I
	couldn’t CONTROL my emotions, it was that I... for lack of a better
	phrase, couldn’t understand the input. And then that confusion made
	me angry, or depressed, or whatever “outward” symptom people felt WAS
	the problem itself.  We are cavemen when it comes to psychology.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 3 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed;
		this is your only warning.

	comment score: 0 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 2 | u/KaliTheCat
		Do you identify as a feminist?

			comment score: 0 | u/None
			[deleted]

				comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
				Okay! Just checking.

					comment score: 0 | u/None
					[deleted]

						comment score: 5 | u/KaliTheCat
						I'm asking because it's my job to ask. Honestly, I also disagree
						with your statement that discrimination does not exist in the
						healthcare field. It very much does. Female pain is not taken
						seriously, and that can have very dire consequences (e.g., women
						being written a prescription for Xanax, or being encouraged to
						see a therapist due to "anxiety," whereupon they go home and die
						of the heart attack they were having but which no one bothered
						to check up on; or the very common experience of women with
						endometriosis going YEARS without diagnosis or treatment because
						doctors just assume periods are supposed to be painful and the
						patient is just being dramatic). I hope that you are correct,
						and that this (and coming) generations of doctors are being
						specifically educated about this, but discrimination based on
						gender in this instance is VERY real.

							comment score: 1 | u/None
							[deleted]

								comment score: 2 | u/KaliTheCat
								God, I tried being nice, and this is what I get. Well, fine.

									comment score: 4 | u/oracular_duck
									Oh, I warned him the other day and he just didn’t listen.
									Take a look at that post history.

										comment score: 3 | u/KaliTheCat
										OH this guy!!! Damn. So many jackasses nowadays, one can
										barely keep track.

	comment score: -5 | u/Sunshine810
	It could have also taken you so long to get diagnosed because
	statistically women are much less likely to have autism than men.
	https://www.autism.org.uk/about/what-is/gender.aspx

		comment score: 11 | u/CaseyRC
		But could not one argue that they're less likely to be diagnosed due
		to a gender bias? Even the article you link to suggests that traits
		in girls are under-reported by teachers and girls are better at
		faking it until you make it, as well as presenting differently (much
		like most women are unaware that their symptoms of a heart attack
		are not the same as men and therefore are not aware they're having
		one because the societal bias is to male symptoms like chest pain
		and arm pain). that's not the same as men are more likely to have
		it, it's just men are more likely to be diagnosed which would be a
		bias, surely?

			comment score: 5 | u/Sunshine810
			Yes now that I think about it, maybe it just appears that men are
			more likely to have it because male symptoms of autism have been
			studied a lot more than female symptoms.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 121 | r/AskFeminists | u/StrongWillMax | 112 comments | 2020-06-08 | https://redd.it/gz4cl9
POST TITLE: How do I stop being bitter and angry against feminists?
It wasn't a big problem until I started browsing subreddits like r/ menrights and r/ TumblrInAction, now my look on women and feminists have been twisted. Now I just feel like feminists are misandrists, not only them but some women too after hearing a lot of shit like "men are shit!" and "men are trash", double standards, and low appreciation for men in this society.
How do I deal with this? I genuinely mean it. I really don't want to fight misandry with misogyny but it just happens and I can't help it sometimes with hating women/feminists and thinking they are trash sometimes.
I know that change starts with me, but how do I do it? Anything to change my look on society?
 
EDIT: I didn't have time to post to every comment. But I wanna say thank you for your support, kind comments and kind of advice.
I'm gonna be honest with you here, I'm not interested in being a feminist(That's not my thing, to be fair) I just wanted to put down my rage and anger toward women/feminists because I know that won't do me any good and just wanted to treat them equally without feeling bias while focusing on what I was browsing/doing before I was introduced to these subreddits. My post was 100% genuine though.
Thankfully, your kind and gentle comments were enough for me to stop this. Thank you again! And don't worry, I won't browse these subreddits again.

	comment score: 1 | u/oracular_duck
	Before I approve this post, you will have to remove your links to
	those subs. We don’t link to them here, or to subs like them.

		comment score: 15 | u/StrongWillMax (OP)
		Done.

			comment score: 14 | u/oracular_duck
			Thanks.

	comment score: 257 | u/babylock
	Stop going to mensrights and tumblrinaction. It’s not surprising
	cherry picked examples and misogynists LARPing as women and feminists
	would do exactly what the members of those subreddits want it to
	Maybe read actual feminist literature for a change instead of getting
	your information from antifeminists

		comment score: 166 | u/calamityseye
		I would also add that you should swap out mensrights with menslib.

			comment score: 47 | u/StrongWillMax (OP)
			Huh. Funny. Some guy asked me to do the same recently.  Want to
			explain why though? They look kind of the same to me. Is there that
			much difference?

				comment score: 195 | u/Albamc35
				MensLib looks at many mens issues as a result of patriarchy and
				from a pro-feminist view, as well as having a positive attitude.
				The MRA sub is just a piece of woman hating shit

					comment score: 34 | u/MexicansInParis
					Damn, thanks so much for that sub. Sounds like something
					essential in my process of re-education.

				comment score: 83 | u/calamityseye
				The mensrights sub promotes misogyny and is generally pretty
				toxic, while menslib is a more pro-feminist sub that focuses on
				men's issues. It's two different movements, the former being based
				on the men's rights movement and the latter being based on the
				men's liberation movement. As a guy myself, I would also recommend
				reading books by women and things like that, it helps give you
				more perspective and builds empathy.

					comment score: 16 | u/sunnyMayhem
					You could check out the works of Raewyn Connell. She writes about
					masculinities, how masculinity is established and performed, and
					why patriarchy is incredibly toxic towards men as well. [Here's a
					link to her website.
					](http://www.raewynconnell.net/p/masculinities_20.html?m=1) All
					the best to you!

				comment score: 64 | u/rosenzweigowa
				You might want to look at the wikipedia articles on men's
				liberation movement and men's right movement, I think they are
				both quite well worded: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Men%27s\_li
				beration\_movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Men%27s_liberati
				on_movement) [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Men%27s\_rights\_movem
				ent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Men%27s_rights_movement)
				Basically MRM is anti-feminist (so it's hard to stop being angry
				against feminists if you believe their ideology), while Mens
				Liberation goes hand in hand with feminism.

				comment score: 38 | u/charming-surgeon
				i think at least from my experience as a guy menslib try to
				advocate for real problems that men in our society face and try to
				educate us on toxic problems that we face and affect both men and
				women without having to fight the other gender and put down
				feminists, while mensrights focus more on attacking others
				sometimes and hate.  (ps: i can't really give a full opinion on
				mensrights because i don't visit it often so i don't have the time
				to completely judge why it is wrong too. my conclusion stems from
				brief visits only)

					comment score: 23 | u/KaliTheCat
					it's mostly a competition to find the worst woman in the world

						comment score: 8 | u/MelbaTotes
						I was runner up for Miss Worst Woman 2014

				comment score: 35 | u/MizDiana
				There's a huge difference - and you are right it is not
				immediately apparent. Men's lib focuses on genuine support &
				practical solutions to issues faced by men rather than complaining
				about and trashing women. They don't blame others for their
				problems, recognize women face problems too, recognize society
				(men and women) is the source of a lot of gender-related problems
				(something we feminists also acknowledge), and are allies of us
				feminists. We like them & recommend /r/menslib often here.

				comment score: 7 | u/kimthegreen
				It is such an awesome thing that you recognize a bad tendency
				within yourself and want to do something against it. And that you
				chose to come here to get help with it shows that you are
				courageous and that you really want to get rid of it. r/MensLib
				seems to really be the space for you. They discuss men's rights
				and problems from a male perspective but without vilifying women
				and/or feminists. Like another commenter said, they are pro-
				feminist. They will welcome you with open arms.

				comment score: 2 | u/thedamnoftinkers
				I'd say MensLib is really supportive, to be honest. And they come
				from not just a feminist perspective but a pro-men perspective,
				something I really appreciate.

		comment score: 45 | u/StrongWillMax (OP)
		I think that's the problem. I was browsing anti-feminism subreddits
		for a long time(Like 3 months ago) which really affected me. I think
		I'm going to stop browsing these and just focus on what I was doing
		before I was introduced to these. Thanks!

			comment score: 35 | u/JulieCrone
			And if you are looking for a more genuinely helpful space to talk
			about issues you are facing as a man, in addition to men’s lib,
			there’s r/bropill.  They allow more personal discussions, are
			genuinely supportive and have fun memes if that’s your thing.

				comment score: 9 | u/StrongWillMax (OP)
				Thanks. They should really change the name though, it sounds kind
				of like an incel name(You know, with the black and red pills thing
				going on)

					comment score: 48 | u/JulieCrone
					I think that was intentional, to get some of the guys looking for
					'pill' type subreddits and pull them out of that kind of thing.

		comment score: 28 | u/TalShar
		This is basically it. If you want to stop hating feminists and
		women, stop going to places that serve you content explicitly
		designed to make you hate feminists and women, usually by entirely
		misrepresenting both.

	comment score: 247 | u/KaliTheCat
	You really have to remember that those subreddits have a very
	specific agenda, which is to make feminists and women look as bad as
	humanly possible. They're really not being truthful with you, they
	want to make you mad, they want to make you hate feminists. Just be
	critical. Hell, half the posts on Tumblrinaction are just made up
	troll BS.

		comment score: 64 | u/StrongWillMax (OP)
		Thanks. I would take by your advice and stop reading these.

			comment score: 130 | u/Cats_of_Freya
			And ask yourself, what do the Mens right activists you read from
			actually do? They claim to care about a lot of legitimate issues,
			but do they do anything at all to actually try and fix things?
			Start serious debates on these topics?  Do they start conversations
			where They ask why do men kill themselves and what can we do to
			change that? Or do they mostly complain about feminism and how
			feminism is unnecessary ?

				comment score: 80 | u/BlessThineHeart
				Exactly. If someone brings up male rape survivors only as a way to
				deflect against feminist being concerned about a female survivor
				of sexual assault, they don’t care about male survivors. They just
				don’t want female survivors to get help and, in doing so, are
				actively hurting survivors of all genders by preventing helpful
				systems and conversations from taking place.

					comment score: 42 | u/AnarchoAnarchism
					Yeah I am not a rape survivor but I am a male who has been
					sexually assaulted after he pushed me to drink so much that I was
					borderline unconscious. I was able to leave before there was–
					like, actual sex. I am going to mention I am a straight cis male
					here because that identity and what I thought it meant to be a
					man shaped how I reacted to what happened and how I saw myself in
					the larger context of the discussion around sexual assault. For
					years after it I kind of laughed it off as something crazy that
					happened at a party. I only told a couple people what actually
					happened, so I was mostly laughing it off in my own head. Later
					when I learned more about what sexual assault actually is,
					largely (if not completely) due to women speaking out about it, I
					started to think maybe what happened to me was sexual assault and
					started to examine how I really felt about it under the surface.
					I started to remember how I thought it was my fault, like I must
					have done something to make him think it was ok to do that. When
					I was able to get out of the situation I remember I was afraid I
					was going to hurt his feelings and tried to kind of apologize
					before I left.  But then I felt massively ashamed for acting that
					way. I thought, if I was really a man I wouldn't have let him do
					that to me. I was thinking like, *if I was a real man I wouldn't
					have let myself become so vulnerable. I would have been able to
					see it coming and prevent it. Why did I stay so long? Was it gay
					of me to hang out with this gay man for so long and "let him" do
					things even though I didn't like it?* I didn't have any
					*conscious* ill-will towards gay men after that, maybe I was more
					guarded around some though, which sucks. Other than that it's
					hard for me to know what my subconscious biases are unless they
					are pointed out by someone. I do try to learn what they are and
					correct them though. Ok here's where it finally connects back to
					feminism: I was drawn towards "men's rights activists" for a
					little while just because they were talking directly to what I
					experience when they talked about men being sexually assaulted
					and I felt validated for the first time after carrying a lot of
					shame and insecurity. That of course was presented in tandem with
					a kind of anti feminism where they make gender issues zero sum
					and make it a battle between men's and women's issues. They
					instilled a fear in me that feminism was calling what I
					experienced and felt illegitimate. At the same time I related to
					so much in women's stories that started to come out into the
					mainstream. Sometimes it would trigger something very deep in me
					and I would just start crying. I was so impressed and inspired by
					these women but at the same time I was under the impression that
					they wouldn't respect my experience the same way. I suppose that
					was selfish, sort of like saying "all lives matter".  Anyways,
					once I started to actually read and talk to feminists I realized
					they do have a lot of compassion for all genders. But obviously
					feminism is focused on empowering women, so they shouldn't be
					expected to make men's issues core to feminism, even if they do
					see things like men being sexually assaulted as a bad thing.
					Which seems like it should be obvious but I guess I, and many
					other men are very insecure—especially for me after my
					experience—and when we don't feel validated in something we take
					offense. Or something like that idk. Wow I wrote a ton, sorry for
					taking up a ton of comment real estate, but I'm curious to know
					what peeps here think about how I'm looking at this. Also I'm
					probably looking for validation tbh I haven't really dealt with
					it emotionally since I haven't really talked about it. I'm still
					insecure. I don't know what to do.  I just feel like I want to
					apologize over and over for posting this. I'm just gonna post it.
					I'm sorry

						comment score: 15 | u/sekraster
						Hey! You're valid. I'm glad you're feeling more comfortable
						talking about the experience, since it sounds like it affected
						you a lot. Have you tried therapy? It might help you work things
						out emotionally. It can take several tries before you find a
						therapist that you click with, but it's worth it. They offer a
						sympathetic outside perspective, which helps you talk things
						through and get a handle on what's bothering you. Good luck!

							comment score: 8 | u/AnarchoAnarchism
							Thank you! It's weird because I forget about it for long
							periods of time but it still seems to effect me. Yeah I'm
							starting to think I wrote that comment to vent more than to
							make a point. I have tried some therapy, but for various
							reasons like my insurance changing to an insurance they don't
							take, not making enough appointments to be kept on as a client,
							and my general lack of effort has meant that I haven't really
							seen a therapist enough to be helpful. I know it's what I
							should do though. I'll try again. Thanks for the kind words.
							And I know upvotes are just dumb fake internet points and we
							shouldn't care about them but in this case it does make me feel
							genuinely validated, because each of those points represents a
							real human being basically saying to me "I hear you" Please
							don't think I'm trying to ask for more though. All I needed was
							for it to not be negative number for me to sleep at night lol

								comment score: 4 | u/sekraster
								I get it, dude. Sometimes it isn't relevant to what anybody
								else was saying, but you can't not say it. And it's nice to
								feel like there are people out there who got what you said,
								even if the form that that validation comes in is relatively
								meaningless.

								comment score: 3 | u/Liesoehoe
								I hear you.

									comment score: 1 | u/AnarchoAnarchism
									Thank you 🤗

						comment score: 6 | u/BlessThineHeart
						You are valid, you are incredible, and you are so goddamn
						strong. None of what happened to you, 0%, was your fault. The
						blame falls 100% on the piece of shit that assaulted you. If you
						ever feel alone, there is a whole community here to support you
						and comfort you. You matter, and you belong here, no matter your
						gender ❤️

							comment score: 1 | u/AnarchoAnarchism
							Well thank you, that means a lot to me :) Something that I was
							thinking about is how even though I have come to realize that
							it wasn't my fault it's still hard for me to think of it as his
							fault.  Maybe it's because I see the justice system as cruel
							and unjust, and if I accept that it is his fault then I am also
							accepting that he be punished in a way that wouldn't make me
							feel any better, because it wouldn't make the change in him
							that I would want and would only damage him and possibly make
							him a worse person. I think that the justice system is holding
							people back from reporting things because it doesn't allow for
							a spectrum of interventions to be used depending on the
							severity of the case, and only acts as a tool of the state to
							inflict suffering as punishment Am I just making excuses for
							him?

						comment score: 5 | u/Cats_of_Freya
						Hey don’t worry, you don’t have to be insecure, no one here is
						judging or thinks any of the bad things about you that you fear.
						If anything, people admire you for managing to talk about what
						happened.  It is gonna help other men who come across your post
						who aren’t able to talk  yet to see that they are not alone in
						their experience. It doesn’t make you any less of a man and
						there wasn’t anything that you were supposed to do or should
						have been able to do. Our body has a way of freezing when we get
						into threatening situations. It’s just how we are. Taking
						advantage of people when they are drunk or passed out is only
						the abusers fault.

							comment score: 1 | u/AnarchoAnarchism
							Hmm I didn't think of how it could actually help people. Thank
							you, that way of thinking could really change the way I feel
							about sharing things like that. I have a lot of trouble talking
							my feelings without feeling guilty about it I think. I bet that
							is common in women as well.  What with the whole notion that
							women should ideally be the emotional anchor of a family, to
							"keep the sanity" in the household and keep the less
							emotionally intelligent man of the house on an even keel
							because as a man he is prone to anger or is oblivious to the
							emotional needs of others, but also to himself, so he needs a
							woman to "tame" him and act as a sort of therapist, while also
							providing pleasure-assisted stress relief, if ya know what I
							mean. For her to talk about her own feelings might make her
							feel guilty as it might be perceived as her failing to live up
							to the ideals that have become expectations weighed upon her by
							societal norms that are reinforced constantly by culture and
							media

						comment score: 3 | u/JcWoman
						> Anyways, once I started to actually read and talk to feminists
						I realized they do have a lot of compassion for all genders.
						Thank you for sharing this.  One comment about this quoted part,
						possibly more for any silent readers who have a similar
						experience to yours:  It's important to remember that in the
						early days of the feminist movement, the women also advocated
						for the rights of African Americans.  And animal welfare.  And
						more recently they've embraced LGBTQ rights.  Feminists are
						nothing if not compassionate.  It's just the right-wing
						political stance that frames them as being selfish and hateful.

							comment score: 1 | u/AnarchoAnarchism
							Thank you, that gives clarity to the point I stumbled upon and
							will remember to point that out when I can

						comment score: 2 | u/Alex_J_Anderson
						I’ve been in the same boat. Sort of. I’ve been hit on quite a
						bit by gay men - cuz I’m an “otter” - and I’ve always liked gay
						men, even in the 90’s when a lot of guys were still huge
						assholes to them. Though I’m an artist / musician. I never gave
						a shit about trying to be masculine and we’ve always been
						granted more leeway I guess to be more feminine.  Anyways, so
						that put me in more situations with gay men. It never went
						further than a simple verbal advance except once. I was really
						drunk at a bar and this guy just wasn’t backing down. I guess he
						really thought he could turn me and tried to sort of kiss me at
						one point.  So when he went to washroom I just bolted.  But the
						only thing I felt was bad for the guy. He was really nice and
						just liked me.  At no point did I think I led him on. And I’ve
						never thought about it since.  I don’t think you need to
						overthink it. Women face unwanted advances all the time and deal
						with men trying to get them drunk. You just got a small taste of
						that.  I don’t want to speak for you but for me, what happened
						was just a) a funny story (I wasn’t in real danger, he was just
						charming / persistent) and b) an eye opener. It got to
						experience what women experience all the time. For one I can see
						how it would be scary if the guy was bigger than me plus it got
						annoying. But it was also really flattering.  At no point did I
						question my masculinity. If that’s where your mind is going, it
						sounds like you’re not ok with the thought of being gay. If you
						were there would be nothing wrong with that. So the question of
						you giving off gay vibes is irrelevant. It doesn’t matter. It
						would be ok if you were, and wouldn’t make you less of a man.
						Also some gay men go after straight guys. It’s a thing.  But
						that’s something you have to work through. I wouldn’t over think
						it though.

							comment score: 1 | u/AnarchoAnarchism
							No you are definitely right. I should have made it more clear
							that that was how I reacted at the time. In the past few years
							I've had time to examine why I was apparently scared to be gay.
							Like you said, I've always been sort of "feminine" in a lot of
							ways, but I still had some deep feeling that being gay was not
							ideal, at the very least. So I was scared to actually be gay I
							guess.  I have also been pretty cowardly most of my life, so I
							cringed to think of having to actually stand up for myself
							being gay. I already dealt with some bullying just for "acting
							gay" and I dreaded to think how being actually gay would go.
							Like, one time some dudes in a truck threw a bottle and yelled
							faggot at me I guess because my hat was hot pink colored and I
							probably had skinny jeans on? And this was a very liberal
							college town where people pretend like everyone is treated
							equal.  It did make me really mad to think those guys would do
							that to someone they thought was gay, but deeper down it made
							me really scared to be gay.  That experience along with all the
							other terrible things you'd hear would happen to people of
							course.

			comment score: 31 | u/savethebros
			mensrights is first and foremost an anti-feminist sub. When
			feminists and progressives bring attention to toxic masculinity,
			the real cause of men’s issues, mensrights accuses them of
			“emasculation” and waging a “war on masculinity”, even though
			feminists just said men shouldn’t do stupid things just to be
			“manly”.

		comment score: 2 | u/Jagitzes
		This. Those subreddits are also built as recruiting grounds for
		white supremacists and militant groups. You want to get out of there
		as soon as you can. They aren't trying to help anyone at all.

	comment score: 95 | u/wrinkledwaterbottles
	Mate, about seven hours ago you posted to Men's Rights and told them
	that feminism is a problem, and that men gave women more rights than
	we should have. I'm really confused as to what you want to achieve
	here (no hate, I'm literally curious because I see this happen a lot)

		comment score: 30 | u/idontreallylikecandy
		Lol about 90% of questions like these seem like they have this exact
		same background.

		comment score: 29 | u/ILovemycurlyhair
		I'd like for OP to also answer this question. I hope he is asking in
		good faith.  I don't know how y'all saints in this subreddit answer
		the same questions over and over knowing that many are not sincere
		in their asking. If it were me I'd definitely grow tired of it.

		comment score: 14 | u/astralcat214
		Read through his comments on past posts. I am personally confused on
		what his actual motives are.

		comment score: 11 | u/RemiRemingtonIII
		I thinking he's trying to bait to be honest, get a reaction of how
		unreasonable people are supposed to be here. But everyone seems to
		have been pretty nice and informative, not that I think it typically
		matters. I think it's hard for men to escape that circle jerk hate
		culture.

		comment score: 1 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 5 | u/oracular_duck
			No. Please remove your link. First, we don’t link to that sub, and
			second, anyone who wants to look at the OP’s posting history can do
			so.

				comment score: 3 | u/sekraster
				I couldn't see it in his post history, though, I had to scroll
				through his comments to find the ones he made there. But fair
				enough, others can do the same. I foolishly didn't realize the
				link rule applied to individual posts, sorry!

		comment score: 0 | u/StrongWillMax (OP)
		I don't have any other motive. You said it yourself. That was before
		hours before I posted this question. I realized that I need to focus
		on what I like the best(Fitness & Programming subreddits) and that
		hating feminists/women won't make me do anything good nor feeling
		rage/hatred toward them. So I decided to ask here. My question is
		genuine. And if you look at my post history, you will notice that I
		didn't post in any subreddit like that.

	comment score: 43 | u/MizDiana
	> How do I deal with this? I genuinely mean it. If you expose
	yourself to a particular point of view over and over, then you will
	start to think in the pattern & terms of that point of view - *even
	if you disagree with it*. Easy solution: don't continuously expose
	yourself to a point of view that makes you bitter and angry. Reassert
	your own values by spending time with those who share views you can
	be proud of & don't create bitterness and anger. So, actually, the
	change doesn't start with you. It starts with who you want to learn
	from and listen to. The you part: stop assuming that the enemies of a
	group are describing it accurately. (Implication: feminists aren't
	what you've heard they are like from the people who hate us.)

	comment score: 37 | u/eliechallita
	Those groups are  pretty good at brainwashing you, so it's almost
	like you're deprogramming yourself once you leave a religious cult. A
	few suggestions: 1. Stop visiting those subs entirely. No, don't look
	them up for laughs or to see how far you've come. Quit them cold
	turkey and stay the hell away for now. 2. Browse  communities like
	this one and r/feminism: use those subs to expose yourself to actual
	feminists  rather than the caricatures you'd  been seeing and make up
	your own mind about them. 3. Stay the sidelines in those subs for now
	rather than contributing: Not because you're not allowed to speak,
	but because you will  very probably revert to antifeminist thoughts
	and phrases sometimes without noticing. A lot of people use those
	subs as a safe space and didn't sign up for the work needed to help
	folks like you. It's alright, you'll be accepted in them soon. 4.
	Join helpful communities like  r/MensLib and engage with us there.
	The people at menslib help people like you pretty regularly, we
	understand where you're coming  from, and most of us are open to the
	kind of labor that's needed to help you. Post the questions that you
	have there for now, we're here to help. And lastly, try to keep an
	open mind: You're going to have emotional reactions to things you see
	or read here, especially if someone points out to you that you might
	be doing something wrong. We're not attacking you by doing that,
	we're trying to help you get over the antifeminist propaganda you'd
	been fed.  You don't have to believe everything we tell you but at
	least try to consider it and examine what you felt about it before
	you go off on anyone. Best of luck

	comment score: 33 | u/PeppermintLane
	These sorts of questions always really frustrate me, because you’re
	asking us to help you not hate us. I don’t think it’s fair to ask us
	this. Think about whether you agree or disagree with MRAs or
	feminists, and then do some research. Take a stand in either
	direction and sort your own feelings out.

	comment score: 28 | u/Ettina
	When I catch myself internalizing negative associations that I know
	aren't appropriate (eg between lesbians and TERFs, for example), what
	I do is deliberately expose myself to counterexamples. So, for your
	case, I suggest seeking out feminist discussions challenging sexism
	against men. For example, r/MensLib is a good resource for finding
	feminists who are actively advocating for men affected by sexism.

	comment score: 13 | u/ohyayitstrey
	First you must recognize that anybody can call anything feminism, but
	that doesn't make it feminism. You say you're mad at feminists, but
	do you know any actual feminist platforms or ideologies? If you only
	get your information about something through a third party that seeks
	to caricaturize and attack the thing, why do you think you'd see the
	good in it?

	comment score: 9 | u/NaBUru38
	There are 3.5 billion women in the world. They are very different.
	There are 3.5 billion men in the world. They are very different.
	Likewise, there are many kinds of feminism. There's radical and
	liberal. There's capitalist and anti-capitalist. There's pro-porn and
	anti-porn. There's trans inclusive and trans exclusionary. There's
	pacific and there's violent. The key is to distinguish between them.

	comment score: 7 | u/Pegacornian
	Understand that subs like that have a very specific agenda. A lot of
	what gets posted there is made-up or taken out of context, anyway.
	I’ve seen a lot of posts on Reddit (not just from those subs) that
	show feminists “hating men” but they turn out to be photoshopped
	images, troll accounts, or satire article. [This](https://www.reddit.
	com/r/memes/comments/cr83iw/where_all_equal_guys/ex3i1rf/?utm_source=
	share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf) is an example, but there
	are many others. Anti-feminists have been to portray feminists as
	hysterical man-haters ever since the feminist movement first emerged.
	You can look at some old [anti-suffragette propaganda
	posters](https://mashable.com/2016/09/03/anti-suffrage-propaganda/)
	to see what I mean. Avoid subs like mensrights and tumblrinaction.
	They only serve to misinform and radicalize people into anti-feminism
	using propaganda. Try r/menslib instead.

		comment score: 1 | u/sekraster
		You aren't supposed to link to the two right-wing subs you linked to
		here - it's in this sub's rules. Personally, I just put a space
		after the r/ so they don't create links.

			comment score: 1 | u/Pegacornian
			Okay, thank you. Just fixed it.

	comment score: 7 | u/didjoosaysumfin
	Hey man I can help!  So it's kind of like this. Take yourself outside
	of your main priorities. Pretend you don't exist for a moment. Now I
	want you to think of people in general as a whole. You want them to
	be happy right? You want them to be equal right? It's a pretty easy
	idea to theorize. VERY difficult to apply if you've been fed a bunch
	of garbage. First off we know generalizations don't work; there's
	always a curve. There's also a wealth of misinformation. I recommend
	you read the articles or literature that these folk provide with the
	idea in mind that they are JUST human and that's it. Yeah it can
	sting a little when you hear "Men are trash". It hurts and it's
	uncomfortable to hear but I think that's the point. You're meant to
	be outside your comfort zone in order to take a step back and address
	your behavior and ideas. Also just a side note.... I don't hear "Men
	are trash" from many respected (or at least those that I know of and
	some of which are regular posters here) feminists. I really don't
	man. I think you're eating up what someone is feeding you because it
	fits your bias and it's the most comfortable thing to do. The best
	way you can stop hating feminists is to internalize the idea that the
	stereotypcial feminists are fringe (not the norm), feminism IS about
	equality, and also this is new territory. It's going to be
	uncomfortable as self discovery always is. It's actually a sign of
	growth when you put yourself outside of your comfort zone and learn
	things about yourself and ideas you may not even consciously aware
	of. Also this has got to be EXHAUSTING for women. Think about that
	for a second. Do you honestly think women feel just comfy and dandy
	when they come out and say they were abused? Do you honestly think
	that high of percentage of women get kicks out of it so it's just a
	no big deal kind of thing? Our society shames women for that. Look at
	Monica Lewinsky.  Go look up her interview with John Oliver. I
	promise you if you come at it with an open mind you will begin to
	understand why feminism is so important and you will stop hating the
	stereotypes and also more importantly; forgive and embrace when the
	message doesn't always come across as sweet and flowery. Be ready for
	abrasive and uncomfortable and stand up like an adult and be self-
	aware. I encourage you to join menslib as I think that's a much
	healthier wealth of information and connection than those subreddits
	you were on.

	comment score: 5 | u/JustA_CatLady
	Try to remember that feminism comes from injustice, it's human beings
	asking for basic rights. Maybe you'll get to see this reality if you
	research the statistics of rape/murderers/kidnapping, etc in the
	country you live in. In mi country rape victims are 8/10 women and
	mostly kids. It isn't about ignoring things that happen to men, it's
	as simple as selecting a problematic and focusing on fixing it. Men
	can do it too if they want to, just don't get mad at us for not being
	able to fix EVERY problem existing in the world...

	comment score: 5 | u/Tsuuppi
	well for starters i think you can learn to distinguish between those
	who just want gender equality and those who focus on dumb stuff. and
	learn that tumblr feminism is not good feminism. and that feminists
	want to give equal rights to women, not take them away from men. and
	also that feminism benefits men as well as women. I'm saying all this
	because that seems to be the misunderstanding. if you're interested
	in discussing men's issues i suggest checking out r/menslib, it's a
	sub that revolves around men's rights without putting down feminism,
	i myself lurk around that sub

	comment score: 6 | u/Sandwichinparadise
	You’re asking US how YOU can stop being angry with US? That’s kind of
	a twisted question.

	comment score: 4 | u/KorukoruWaiporoporo
	As a feminist, it'd be really easy to radicalise myself into a total
	misandrist arsehole by spending too much time on particular subs.
	There are only so many stories a person can read about horrible
	misogynistic events before it affects your mood and colours your
	world-view, right? So I limit my exposure to things that could make
	me angry and hateful. r/MensLib is a super useful sub for me. It
	acknowledges that feminism isn't about reversing the power of the
	genders and that the patriarchal and kyriarchal systems oppress men
	too. I learn about interesting issues I've never thought about from
	men's perspectives.

	comment score: 5 | u/avocado-nightmare
	Of course you feel differently about feminism after browsing sites
	that specifically curate content that makes feminists look bad,
	angry, mean, and hateful.

	comment score: 5 | u/ArboretumBamboo
	Hey! I used to browse MRA (sort of) before realizing their flaws.
	Everyone said enough here, but one thing I'd like to add is that
	their statistics and information is used in a misleading way. For
	example, I'm sure you've heard the "Men commit suicide 4x more than
	woman". Actually, women ATTEMPT suicide at 3x more than men. Men are
	simply more successful because they tend to use successful methods
	such as using a firearm as opposed to overdosing on pills. I believe
	that men have issues, but the way MRA presents it is unproductive,
	misleading, and emotionally-charged. A good quote I read: "*When a
	society fails to discuss a topic, it forfeits it to extremist groups
	who are willing to listen.*" If MensRights was your first exposure to
	male issues, it's totally understandable that you'd cling to it. I
	did too. Please check out /r/MensLib. They're much healthier and
	goal-oriented.

	comment score: 5 | u/thedamnoftinkers
	Oh gosh, I am so sorry to hear that. I honestly just want to give you
	a hug. It's got to be hard to hear these "men are shit" and "men are
	trash" comments, and not feel specifically like it means you're shit
	and you're trash. And to be honest, mensrights and TIA are not really
	necessarily welcoming, caring places; they're places to share and
	amplify outrage but not to have your voice heard, not to get what you
	really need. (I don't mind telling you I've had to step back from
	places like that on the left because outrage and hate was hurting me
	too.) I'm not going to defend all the people who say shit about men,
	because I don't know them and some are genuinely terrible people.
	(Trash, one might say.) But I do know for a fact that some people who
	say men are shit \*also\* love and/or like men; they are thinking
	very specifically of certain men, of certain types of men, and those
	guys are not concerned with justice or fairness except in how they
	can twist it to their benefit. The men they're thinking of aren't
	hurt by them saying that. (As I say this, it actually strikes me how
	painful this whole thing is; the benefit is that other women who have
	shared those experiences recognise a fellow survivor.) I can share
	with you what I did and hope that it helps for you. I began thinking
	of my mind as needing balance and mental hygiene; I could only take
	so much negativity before it really began to have a terrible effect
	on me. I needed to find the helpers, like Mr Rogers says, and I
	needed to spend some time with people I loved and in media that made
	me happy and reminded me there were genuinely good people out there,
	even if we disagreed on things. We're living in rough, rough times.
	Especially in America, which spills over powerfully online, things
	are extremely divided. But remember: we literally are all one human
	family, just a few cousins away from each other, and it's just luck
	that the person who has such a stupid opinion (because lord *gravy*
	people are dumb sometimes, *cough cough*, some of those Tumblr posts)
	isn't your sister or brother. It doesn't matter if they're male or
	female, there's plenty of short-sighted hate and stupidity to go
	around. But your job is to take care of you, and to stick by what you
	know to be true. And anything will seem true if you spend enough time
	in it. Watch enough flat earth videos and even the smartest person
	will be like, "Hmmm..." It's all in what you feed your brain. I trust
	you. I don't think you'll wind up misogynist. You noticed yourself
	getting sucked in, that speaks volumes for you. Thanks for reading my
	tome, and here are some \*hugs\* if you want them and here are some
	more: \*hugs\* Feel free to DM me anytime. Edit: (Because apparently
	I didn't write enough, I have OPINIONS ON THIS OK) I just want to
	note that my mom and her female partner were hella abusive and my dad
	was the nurturing, loving parent in my life and I absolutely adored
	my dad and miss him every day now he's gone. I have a lot of people I
	admire and a number of them are men, like Fred Rogers, Martin Luther
	King Jr, and Malcolm X.

		comment score: 2 | u/StrongWillMax (OP)
		Wow. That's the most supportive and kind comment I have ever read.
		Thank you so so much!!! I really appreciate it. Thanks again!

			comment score: 1 | u/thedamnoftinkers
			Aww, you're so welcome! I just know how it is, and I want you to
			know you're far from alone.

	comment score: 3 | u/Artsyhipster
	Hm... This seems frustrating! Have you tried working on your real-
	life relationships to women? I don't know where you are from but in
	my city we have quite interesting meetups with feminists
	readingcircles and diffirent real life discussion forums. Meeting
	real women in a contex where people are open, vulnerable and open to
	have an intelectuall disscussion might be better for you. I think the
	most important thing to remember is: Sensationalism can be cancerous
	if you let it. What you see online or in media is sensationalism, and
	you have to be very critical of this content as these forums are
	trying to sell and be clickbate, never really  creating a nuanced
	world view. If all you see in the media and in angry forums is that
	muslims are bad related to negative things such as terror or war and
	you don't think critically towards this input it can become exremely
	dangerous for society, especially if a lot of people to this. When
	you all you see is angry feminist spraying down guys that are man
	spreading this is not representative for what a feminist or a woman
	for that matter is.

	comment score: 3 | u/tBrenna
	I’d recommend checking out menslib. It’s a feminist subreddit whose
	focus is men. Posts are generally for men to discuss various aspects
	of life and culture from a feminist perspective. It helps with that
	balance that you may be looking for and is a good reminder that
	feminism is about raising all of us. Many of the things women fight
	against because they hurt women also hurt men, but perhaps in
	different ways. And it takes all of us seeing that and working
	together to find solutions to raise all of us up.

	comment score: 3 | u/Vodkya
	Just think that they are humans and they make mistakes.  Just as you
	are feeling hatred against feminists and some women due to them being
	hateful and by what you have read in extremist groups, they might be
	going through the same.  It’s a difficult situation also if they have
	experienced violence and abuse from men which is a huge issue around
	the world even if we are in 2020.  I would say get away from any
	extremist groups and just go to the actual feminism/equality ones.
	Know that every person has its issues, its suffering, and never take
	personal what one person might say even if they are claiming to
	represent everyone in that group. Don’t pay mind or attention to
	someone that seems to just be hateful. Not every person that claims
	to be feminist is actually a feminist. Not every woman is a feminist.

	comment score: 3 | u/EM37452
	So I am a woman and there have been times I have tended to feel like
	"men are trash" or make generalizations, but feminism actually got me
	out of that mindset rather than inflicting it on me.  I think it's
	really important to recognize that you have certain experiences in
	life based off of your gender and because the majority of people are
	heterosexual, you often deal with people of the opposite sex in a
	unique way.  I have been raped, coerced, assaulted and so has almost
	every female friend I've known and many of my guy friends would try
	to have sex with me when I was vulnerable. I began to fear and hate
	men because that was who I had most negative experiences with and the
	only experience I have lived is my own.  But when I got over some of
	the pain and took a step back I realized that men deal with a lot of
	collective trauma as well that are both inflicted upon them by
	society or by damaging partners. I personally think some people
	pretend like feminism is only for women, and maybe that's how some
	women use it, but for me it means coming together and rejecting the
	gender norms of the society that are toxic to everyone.  I agree with
	everyone recommending the sub MensLib. It helped me see those issues
	that I do care about discussed by men who truly care about those
	issues, rather than as a counter argument to why women's issues
	should be ignored.  Feminism is about equality and removing double
	standards for both men and women. If someone yells at you for being a
	man, just know they are in the wrong and probably reacting to some
	trauma that has nothing to do with you the same way the guys on the
	men's rights subs are lashing out at women. Try to have empathy, but
	you don't need to listen to those people. The voices fighting for
	equality are the only ones that matter

	comment score: 3 | u/None
	Thats the whole point of those subreddits, to talk shit about women
	and making us look like all the shit that goes in the world is our
	and feminism’s fault. I am from an extremely misogynist country where
	“femicides” (hate crimes against women, they aren’t even categorized
	as regular homicides because they are gender-based murders) happen
	all the time. Feminism is the best thing that could’ve happened to my
	country and it’s the reason why many women are alive and women who’ve
	been victims of this have a voice. It makes me so sad and angry to
	see all these men on their stupid subreddits acting like feminism is
	cancer and they just don’t think outside the box. The purpose of
	those subreddits is precisely to make us look bad, to make feminism
	look bad. Most of the men who post on those subs are just pissed off
	incels and MGTOWs who’s only form of self validation is degrading
	women , don’t let them get into your head.

	comment score: 3 | u/SuperRadPsammead
	Start with Contrapoints videos! Natalie is fantastic.

	comment score: 3 | u/rosesandgrapes
	“Men are trash” is not what majority feminists say and approve. If by
	low appreciation for men you mean the believe that men aren’t
	inherently special, then, yes, that’s true but I don’t think that
	valuing individual men for their individual merits, virtues and
	talents rather than romanticizing entire gender is a bad thing. Same
	with women.

	comment score: 2 | u/maxedgextreme
	I make a rule of *always* listening to people directly before casting
	judgment.  Both sides of the political spectrum are lazy on social
	media about carelessly or intentionally mischaracterizing people.
	I'd suggest reading one page of the 'AskFeminists' wiki per day, then
	sort by top all time and read one per day, then ask about further
	reading/viewing  if you're interested.  Don't try to do it all at
	once, take time to digest!

	comment score: 2 | u/Shibaru-in-a-Subaru
	I think the big part is actually talking to them and understanding
	that not all are like that, in fact most aren’t. But those kind of
	groups like to use the bad examples to portray all. Women who hate
	men are likely going through the same dilemma as you, seeing so many
	awful abusive men that they can’t help but perceive all men that way,
	especially if they’ve been traumatized by rape and abuse.

	comment score: 2 | u/noot-noot-boot
	I used to be the same way! Others gave good advice so I want to share
	my perspective, having once been in the same place as you.  Like
	others said, it will be better if you stop visiting those subs.
	They’re very cherry-picked and have a specific goal in mind. They
	paint a caricature that doesn’t accurately reflect real life. It
	gives you a skewed idea of reality/what women are actually like. And
	on top of that, doesn’t visiting those subreddits make you feel kind
	of shitty in the end? Like full of toxic anger with nowhere to go.
	It can also help to expose yourself to views that you’re not used to
	listening to. Which, as evidenced by posting this, you’re open for,
	which is honestly such a large part of the battle. I recommend
	reading “We should all be feminists” by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.
	It’s a short, easy read that even the most closed minded person can
	get behind. That’s how it was for me, at least. Reading this book was
	my turning point.  I think it’s also good to analyze what your
	motivation is for feeling like that in the first place. People who
	eat up anti-sjw rhetoric usually have a bitter motive for it. For me,
	I was a young woman trapped in a fundamentalist cult where women were
	genuinely seen as lesser. Weren’t allowed to speak in church, were
	expected to be meek and beautiful and obedient, etc. It taught me to
	look at “liberated” women with scorn, and see every woman as
	inherently dumber and worth less.

	comment score: 2 | u/daddychillos
	Some people hate women, some people hate men. These people shouldn't
	representent neither all men or all women or feminists. Just look at
	some definitions of feminism and ask yourself if you agree with this
	vision. Feminism is an anti-sexist movement, for both genders, and it
	acknowledges that patriarchy plays a big role in discrimination
	especially against women, but also against men.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed;
		this is your only warning.

	comment score: 1 | u/SamGlass
	Check out r/MensLib

	comment score: 1 | u/raskolnikova
	well, of course what you're seeing is subreddits that curate a bunch
	of content representing extreme behaviour. it's like how, even though
	violent crime rates have been steadily declining for decades, people
	who see and hear about a lot of crimes from news/social media are
	more likely to believe violent crime is a growing threat.  if you go
	to subreddits like the one you named which pick out examples of what
	they see to be outrageous feminist behaviour, your idea of whatever a
	"feminist" is will be based on that selective representation. if you
	want to change the way you feel about feminists, stop visiting those
	subreddits. it's commendable that you want to do this and came to us
	asking about it - because there are too many people who get turned on
	feminists the same way you did, but who get completely stuck in that
	mindset and don't see the problems in it or look to challenge it.
	talk to feminists. stick around on this subreddit, see what the
	common/recurrent questions here are and how people respond to them,
	and ask as many more questions as you would like (so long as they are
	in good faith).

	comment score: 1 | u/Violetta311
	Do you hang out with feminists?

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed;
		this is your only warning.

	comment score: 1 | u/Circuit_Strike
	There's also "the good men project" online and it's a good resource.

	comment score: 1 | u/Fuzzy-Scene
	My man, you become what you feed. Feed yourself junk food and you'll
	be fat. Feed your mind a narrow view of the world and you will become
	that. Stop feeding your mind BS. Open your mind and start consuming
	more positive stuff. Talk to women and actually listen without
	judgement. Judgment is just a way of you justify your narrow world
	view. People are different and accept that.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
		Per the sidebar rules: please put any relevant information in the
		text of your original post. The rule regarding top level comments
		always applies to the authors of threads as well. Comment removed.
		*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please
		[contact the moderators of this
		subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskFeminists) if you have any
		questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/imitatingnormal
	Really makes me sad to hear that! Completely understandable response
	given what you’ve been exposed to.  Would only like to add that all
	that’s required to be a feminist is to believe in equal rights for
	women. So it sounds like you might just be a feminist even if you
	don’t mean to be!

	comment score: 1 | u/enbymoviescript
	Diversify the content you consume. You have a bias because that’s all
	you’re exposed to. I know - I used to frequent TIA myself.  Then I
	realized that a lot of the “examples” there were either cherry-picked
	extremists that most feminists don’t agree with, posts from very
	young activists who don’t know what they’re talking about, or things
	taken out of of context, like edgy shit-posting. When I had this
	context, I realized just how much TIA was full of shit and how much
	it was rotting my brain.  There’s a modicum of pro-feminist content
	that isn’t just Tumblr posts or social media. TIA doesn’t want you to
	engage with that - it literally exists just to stir outrage.

	comment score: 1 | u/T-Flexercise
	I think, in general, it's really important to get your ideas about
	who a group of people are from those people themselves. So, like, if
	I start feeling like "UGH MRAs are terrible idiotic losers", I go
	read r/mensrights.  And some of it makes me feel real uncomfortable
	because honestly, there's a lot of terrible stuff there.  But it
	gives me more of a sense that there's a lot of people in pain who are
	reacting to real problems in ways that I don't agree with.  But,
	like, they're real people coming from a place with real problems. I
	can't just read exclusively pieces making fun of MRAs and think that
	is representatives of who those people are as a whole group, or what
	draws a person to an ideology that I don't agree with. So similarly,
	it's hugely important not to take boards like r/TumblrInAction as
	representative of what feminism is.  It's a forum that exists
	specifically for people who don't like "the Tumblr crowd" to make fun
	of them.  So it will include some crazy out-of-context pot shots from
	the craziest people, and it will even include people who don't like
	feminists pretending to be feminists.  It's hard to read people who
	don't agree with you talking amongst themselves, especially when they
	use language that's directly disparaging you.  I know it's hard for
	me to do it.  But it's really important that you do it.  Maybe not
	all the time, but once in a while.  It helps you grow.

	comment score: -5 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 14 | u/KaliTheCat
		Wow, no, we don't allow this here, especially not in top level
		comments. You are warned.

			comment score: -35 | u/pequod_bruxelles
			Don’t tone police me, you have *no idea* what I go through as a
			disabled Muslim MTF queer feminist. My opinion is shared by my
			comrades, you’re either with me all the way or against feminism. I
			suggest you check your mod privilege before speaking out of line
			again.

				comment score: 16 | u/KaliTheCat
				I suggest you leave immediately. I'll help you.

				comment score: 1 | u/None
				[removed]

					comment score: 5 | u/oracular_duck
					We have this handled, thanks.

		comment score: 3 | u/StrongWillMax (OP)
		What? I don't think I get the joke.

			comment score: 19 | u/oracular_duck
			That person is trolling. You should ignore them.

	comment score: 1 | u/mae4n
	I was on tumblr for years and there definitely is a few crazies on
	there. However I will say that most feminists do not approve of them
	and even on tumblr they were called out and people rallied against
	them. The type of feminists those kinds of subs show you are what we
	refer to as radfems or TERFs. They really don't represent the larger
	movement and more often than not are looking for attention or
	straight up being trolls.

		comment score: 7 | u/oracular_duck
		Please use the term “radical feminist” (and its abbreviated form,
		radfem) correctly. “Radical feminist” is not synonymous with TERF
		(and we don’t recognize TERFs here as actually being feminists,
		despite their claim).

			comment score: -1 | u/mae4n
			I didnt mean radical feminists and terfs as synonymous but instead
			treated with the same regard on tumblr.  Radfem to me doesnt mean
			terf but overall feminists that misunderstood the movement.  Like
			the people on tumblr that say shit like "men are a plague on the
			earth" ect ect. They aren't necessarily trans exclusive but still
			horrendously misrepresenting the movement. Terfs although not
			considered feminists by most feminists self identify as feminist
			and because of that can misrepresent the movement in the same way a
			radfem could as well. Sorry if I didnt clarify it better. They are
			definitely not synonymous but I meant that likely one of those
			identities was what op encountered.

				comment score: 10 | u/oracular_duck
				That is not what radical feminism means. “Radical feminist” does
				not mean “extremist.” Rather, radical feminism seeks to wholly
				reshape societal ideas about sex and gender and their relationship
				to roles, expectations, laws, customs, media, government, money,
				and discourse. A liberal feminist might say that a good feminist
				outcome would be if half of America’s CEOs were women; a radical
				feminist would say that the whole concept of CEOs as they
				currently exist should be discarded and a more equitable plan put
				in place. Having 50% of the 1% be women is not the kind of change
				we are looking for. Most of us on this sub are radical feminists
				in this sense. That is what the term actually means.

					comment score: -3 | u/mae4n
					I'm a radical feminist too but I'm saying colloquially in some
					circles radfem (not radical feminism) is used to describe people
					who claim they're feminist but hold the Neoliberal view of
					feminism to the extreme if that makes sense. Most are Terfs and
					are very "vagina focused" but not all are trans exclusive. This
					isnt about the view of gender norms, destroying gender roles or
					equality it's about milquetoast articles about how cheating if
					you're a woman is okay or those people who talk about men being a
					great evil instead of fellow human beings impacted by gender
					roles. I usually use the term radical feminist or leftist
					feminist to describe myself because of the colloquial meaning
					attached to radfem. It's like how there's nice guys and then
					there's niceguys™️. I hope that makes sense, I definitely did not
					mean to offend anyone.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 97 | r/AskFeminists | u/dikonaalamkungbakit | 24 comments | 2020-01-28 | https://redd.it/evf31o
POST TITLE: How do you deal with someone's bias against women leading?
Some people cannot take female bosses or managers seriously. They would not immediately follow orders; or, would be questioning orders too much but would not do that if a male boss ordered it.  
It feels like a woman has to be an exceptional leader just to be acknowledged. Any mistake would be attributed to the manager's being a woman. 
Whenever I see/encounter those scenarios, I just feel so sad; have women not proved that they were just as competent as anybody else? It seems to be an uphill battle. How do you deal with it?

	comment score: 62 | u/transponster99
	\>It feels like a women has to be an exceptional leader just to be
	acknowledged. I am a female manager in a male-dominated profession
	(my current team is all men). I feel respected and listened to at
	this particular job, but in general, I have experienced that in male-
	dominated environments (which includes the leadership strata at most
	places), your assessment is mostly true. Women are held to a very
	high standard and there is little tolerance for mediocrity. If you
	are a superstar, you will be respected. If you are not, you will be
	ignored (at best). I suppose the way I have personally dealt with
	this is to try to make sure that I am so competent and effective that
	almost everyone ends up respecting me, and anyone who doesn't
	wouldn't dare say it out loud. I know this is not a very helpful
	answer.

		comment score: 32 | u/sbl005
		The second part to this is what I always point out when people
		suggest women don’t deserve certain roles such as management. Most
		women in high positions have had to work harder, make less mistakes
		and walk a tightrope of kind yet stern to make it where they are.
		Op, I guess this could be one thing you could also share with people
		you feel don’t respect women in leadership roles.

			comment score: 20 | u/aknomnoms
			Don’t know the reaction to this, but GET A DADDY. I work in a male-
			dominated field and got this advice from a well-meaning male
			colleague. I was venting to him that yet again, another male
			coworker had gotten the prized project. I deserved it more, etc. He
			gave it to me straight: it wasn’t necessarily because I was a
			woman, but it was that I tried so hard to do it on my own. The
			other guys were getting what they wanted because they had “daddies”
			— managers 2, 3 rungs up the ladder who treated them like protégés
			and had enough swing to make things happen. These guys weren’t
			nearly as hardworking or knowledgeable, but they knew how to
			schmooze and network. I tried doing that at my next job (easy
			because I actually liked all my managers), and found a lot less
			resistance.  In regards to employees/subordinates, start
			documenting any flack. Clarify deadlines or info in emails so they
			can’t say they never knew or were told differently. Mention it to
			your daddy and talk to HR once you have some documentation, but
			don’t say it’s because you feel like it’s due to you being a woman,
			just that it’s because they’re being difficult. Honestly, it likely
			IS because you’re a woman, but it could also just be personality
			clashes. You don’t want them throwing back gender bias in your face
			and claiming that you treat THEM differently! Stay strong, and best
			of luck!

				comment score: 5 | u/Liambp
				This is good advice but did you find it hard to establish those
				mentor relationships because you were not "one of the lads"
				(apologies for my assumptions) ?

					comment score: 5 | u/aknomnoms
					Is it tough? Oh. Hell. Yeah. I feel like I’m constantly being
					judged and evaluated on a different scale than my male coworkers
					in almost every aspect, including how I develop relationships
					with those further up in the hierarchy. Throw in gendered and
					ethnic societal nuances, and it adds a never-ending barrage of
					internal questions and doubt to the constant uphill battle. This
					is true for anyone who feels like a minority, I think. I got my
					mentors by ”playing ball” (going to the bar although I don’t
					drink, sacrificing a Saturday on the green when I have no
					interest in golf, etc) to get the same face time my male
					coworkers were getting with the managers. But I used that time to
					get to know the guys and find commonalities, then used those to
					develop relationships. There were and still are obstacles (for
					instance, just recently a female coworker from another office
					commented, “does Manager’s Wife know you get lunch together with
					him every Friday?” Would she have commented if I was a dude?),
					but I feel like by having actual common interests and real
					conversations with my managers, there is more respect from others
					and between us. There’s no flirty or uncle/niece dynamic, and
					it’s more friendly than student/teacher.

	comment score: 28 | u/hotlipcontradiction
	Honestly? I haven't cracked it either, but the most important thing
	is to just keep showing up. Normalizing a woman as a leader is all we
	can do right now.

		comment score: 2 | u/Mmichare
		Culture really plays a role here. It takes others, especially males,
		to push the agenda of women being competent and stellar leaders to
		set the tone. Or else, it’s on the women to always carry the baggage
		of having to do more to be seen, and that sucks because there’s an
		emotional and mental toll that goes along with that. I used to work
		at a company where women (and minorities) didn’t hold many of the
		leadership roles, ole boys club type feel. When the company
		addressed this, they said although they actively recruit, women (and
		minorities) didn’t make up as big of a segment in the candidate
		pool.

	comment score: 21 | u/puss_parkerswidow
	I'm in a position where I only have one coworker. He's young, great,
	never acts like I can't do my job. The thing I run into is male
	clients who think they can walk right over me. It's only a couple of
	them, and they're both pretty obnoxious to everyone. I deal with them
	by being ready at all times to politely but firmly say no and tell
	them what we're doing next. One likes to see if he can get me to make
	a lot of calls and function as his assistant by calling numerous
	times to remind him to pay his bill. I don't. I call once, then email
	a link to pay. If he is late, he gets a fee. The fee is never waived.
	He had the link and information he needed to pay his bill on time. I
	suspect he does this everywhere, just to see who is a pushover.  He
	tried to do something really stupid when I first sold him the
	product, and I interrupted him and told him he was going about this
	in the most backasswards way possible and to just answer my questions
	and we'd narrow it down to what he actually needed. I let him know I
	really didn't care if he bought it from me or not. If he wanted to
	buy it here, he'd need to allow me to sell it, not bark orders at me.
	Surprisingly, he bought it from me anyway.  I think letting this guy
	know I don't need him or care about him was important. Otherwise,
	he'd be taking advantage of me. He tries to take advantage of weekend
	staff too, but they don't budge either. They tell him to talk to me.
	I don't treat everyone that way, this guy is special- he needs to be
	told how to act.

	comment score: 10 | u/didoangst
	Back in the 80's when I was in the navy I was a supervisor of all
	men. One new guy, first day on the job says he does not take orders
	from women. He tried to get the other men to side with him. Our
	Lieutenant told him if he didn't start taking orders from women today
	he would be the first man to be charged with mutiny in over a hundred
	years. Lol.  I was in the navy for 10 years and that was the only
	time I had any issues with it.

	comment score: 7 | u/mybluecouch
	When these people (men or women) want to drag down the female leader
	in such a scenario, it seems like it's often being done by those who
	are themselves, most inferior, insecure, and weakest of the bunch.
	Perhaps find a way to draw attention to that fact?  IDK.

	comment score: 6 | u/TheGreatBoringVoid
	I think it speaks volumes about a man's security as a man if he
	cannot defer to women in leadership.  If one is uncomfortable being
	underneath a woman in chain of command one is inherently mysogynistic
	and insecure in one's own masculinity.  There is a toxicity that
	exists in most organisations where might is considered right, where
	wile, guile, and ability are overlooked in favour of perceived might.

	comment score: 3 | u/ToughShitl
	I'm not entirely sure all I know is that I was a only child. So I
	grew up in a single household and didn't have a daddy.  Anyways I
	always wanted to experience life with men. To see how it would be. I
	got the opportunity of a lifetime. To work with framers and
	carpenter's 5th generation. I had a stigma about this type of work.
	Woman usually will always get laughed off the job. So I totally was
	wanting to learn to pass anything that my sons fathers and
	grandfathers have done down to them. I mean why not and the guys are
	going to be relentless and tease that I have no idea what  I am doing
	but I am a beginner and I am the only woman on the job this time. So
	hopefully I'll be able to learn some intellectual intelligence.

	comment score: 3 | u/jenbrown27
	I would take this to Human Resources. They need to make efforts to
	bring awareness about this issue using workshops or materials that
	can help cause a transformation.

	comment score: 1 | u/hotch__potch
	Many people fall under 'think manager - think male' effect, as the
	'stereotypical manager' and 'stereotypical male' have same qualities,
	which differ from the qualities of a 'stereotyped woman'. And many
	women have hard time with their jobs due to this.  With my short
	experience in the corporate, I have seen three teams led by a woman.
	In two of them, the female managers were respected by subordinates
	and the commonalities I noticed were that both of them are good at
	their jobs, good at communicating what needs to be done, holding
	people accountable for their work and letting them know that others
	are doing a good job. Also they both spend some time with their
	teammates; going for lunches, snacks or just sit with them to joke
	around etc.  In the third team, the manager wasn't much liked by
	others in the team, even though she was good at her job and
	maintained good reputation with the clients, she was too dominating,
	won't hold discussions with you about what exactly needs to be done
	and won't give credit.  I am not suggesting anything about your
	working style, but I just wanted to point out my observation that
	both the women who managed to have some connection with their
	teammates were respected more and which is what one can see happening
	between male managers and their subordinates.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 3 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed;
		this is your only warning.

			comment score: 1 | u/MASTERR999
			Please remove me from this group!!

				comment score: 3 | u/oracular_duck
				Gladly.

				comment score: 3 | u/KaliTheCat
				Imagine saying this like you're not a whole adult with free will.

					comment score: 4 | u/oracular_duck
					He’s a 60-year-old daddy looking for an 18-35 year old for
					sexytimes, I think most of his effort is directed towards that.

	comment score: -1 | u/Sexyfunottawa
	I work in a male dominated field and I can tell you, there are great
	female managers who get plenty of respect and opportunity, and there
	are terrible ones who are insecure and poor leaders, and sometimes
	those ones get opportunities simply because we’re trying to get more
	women in leadership roles. This whole area is incredibly subjective,
	and I don’t think it does any of us any good to just assume that if
	you’re not getting ahead it’s because you’re a girl.

		comment score: 3 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 2 | u/Sexyfunottawa
			Right. We all have strengths, baggage, privilege and strikes
			against us. That’s life. Focus on developing your strengths,
			lifting others, and overcoming whatever bullshit happens to come
			your way; focusing on the injustice of one specific kind of
			obstacle (real or imagined) will get you exactly nowhere.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 77 | r/AskSocialScience | u/ScandalousScouser | 92 comments | 2019-03-09 | https://redd.it/az5rgq
POST TITLE: Who changed the definition of racism to power + prejudice... And why?
In the dictionary, where laymen get their words, it’s: “The belief that race accounts for differences in human character or ability and that a particular race is superior to others.” And “Discrimination or prejudice based on race.”
I recently heard a POC say she can’t be racist when she was certainly saying some bigoted stuff regardless. She said racism is “scientifically defined” as power + prejudice - that confused me. 
Like, a poor white family in a rural trailer park doesn’t have more “power” than The Obama Family. 
How is this new definition helpful? Seems to just burn a lot of bridges.

	comment score: 171 | u/Ghostnappa4
	the purpose of power + prejudice was to move discourse away from the
	idea of being racist as a personal failing, and instead focus on
	structural oppression and the material reality of minority groups.
	Basically liberal society largely seems to have conceived racism as
	'being irrartionally mean', but for people with a materialist anti-
	racist perspective, that definition isn't productive or insightful
	and the lack of material, tangible progress for black people post-
	civil rights made it clear that there needed to be more focus on
	power dynamics and historical context to combat racism. I'd reccomend
	Beverly Tatum's work , her perspective is very informed and
	compelling imo.

		comment score: 50 | u/Sendooo
		Well explained! Making a distinction between an individual and
		societal frame is very useful. I would like to add that this doesn't
		imply that a POC can't be racist. They can, and if they think that
		they can't they are misusing this sociological concept of racism.

			comment score: 17 | u/AnCom9
			> I would like to add that this doesn't imply that a POC can't be
			racist. Are there any journal articles or academic books that
			confirm your statement? Just wondering since, from those who use
			the "power plus privilege" definition, I usually hear the opposite
			claim.

				comment score: -30 | u/whitehat511
				You should look into Peter Boghossian and James Lindsay's work.
				Academic journals are ideologically compromised in a big way. They
				submitted a section of Mein Kampf to an academic journal and
				simply replaced "Jew" with "white men" and got rejected *for not
				being extreme enough.*

					comment score: 17 | u/denim_skirt
					citation please

						comment score: 4 | u/AnCom9
						> Academic journals are ideologically compromised in a big way.
						This can be true if talking about journals like Quarterly
						Journal of Austrian Economics (associated with the Mises
						Institute) and the various Koch brigaded journals. I'm not sure
						about major journals though (e.g. Stanford journals, APSA and
						ASPA journals, etc.). I doubt it's the case for them.

						comment score: -12 | u/ArchimedesJones
						[LMGTFY](http://lmgtfy.com/?q=Peter+Boghossian+and+James+Lindsay
						+mein+kampf) [https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/voices/2018
						/10/10/grievance-studies-academia-fake-feminist-hypatia-mein-
						kampf-racism-column/1575219002/](https://www.usatoday.com/story/
						opinion/voices/2018/10/10/grievance-studies-academia-fake-
						feminist-hypatia-mein-kampf-racism-column/1575219002/)
						[https://www.wsj.com/articles/fake-news-comes-to-
						academia-1538520950](https://www.wsj.com/articles/fake-news-
						comes-to-academia-1538520950)
						[https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/04/arts/academic-journals-
						hoax.html](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/04/arts/academic-
						journals-hoax.html)

							comment score: 21 | u/None
							Hoaxes of this kind have been carried out before. Most
							notoriously, the Sokal affair: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v
							=Rnmfe6qskRY](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rnmfe6qskRY).
							Public performances of this type prove nothing except the
							importance of peer-review, that some obscure journals have lax
							standards of review and that the perpetrators are unable to
							engage with the ideas they criticize in discussion, not that
							"academic journals are compromised in a big way".

					comment score: 2 | u/beimpermissible
					Their work is so, so dumb. Mostly, what they did is submit
					garbage that got rejected until it made its way down to low-tier
					journals, and then also falsified data (made it up wholecloth) to
					get into stronger journals. Those three are idiots.

						comment score: 0 | u/whitehat511
						Why was it accepted at all??? What are the barriers between what
						they wrote and what you're looking for? You haven't engaged the
						concern this raises at all.

							comment score: 2 | u/AnCom9
							> Why was it accepted at all??? I assume because of this if
							it's true: > Mostly, what they did is submit garbage that got
							rejected until **it made its way down to low-tier journals.**
							Low-tier journals might of course publish low quality articles.

							comment score: 1 | u/beimpermissible
							You clearly don't understand academic publishing. If you want
							to talk with academics about how peer review and journal
							prestige and knowledge-making work, go learn something first.

								comment score: 1 | u/whitehat511
								You mean learn things that agree with your worldview? I have
								learned things, maybe you just don't like it because it
								conflicts with your dogma.

									comment score: 1 | u/beimpermissible
									k

					comment score: 0 | u/mercury2six
					Jre fan?

			comment score: -10 | u/MadnessofKingHippo
			Agreed.  On a personal note, I find it interesting that your
			comment saying this got upvotes while mine saying pretty much the
			same thing (That POC can sometimes use this as an excuse for having
			racist beliefs or doing racist acts) got downvoted.

			comment score: -20 | u/ArchimedesJones
			Maybe it *shouldn't* imply that POC's can't be racist, but it is
			definitely used that way by plenty of keyboard activists. For a
			current example, see Ilhan Omar's vile anti-semitic remarks, which
			have been largely excused and ignored by her own party, ostensibly
			on the basis of her Somali-refugee background. Academics may intend
			this definition to apply to a specific topic (institutional and
			systemic racism, primarily) within a specific context (academic
			discussion), but in actual practice, I've seen plenty of online
			discussion that tries to claim POC exemption from racism, even as
			they make sweeping generalizations based on race, and spew all
			sorts of hate and anger along the same lines.

				comment score: 7 | u/None
				Please keep your political soapboxing out.

				comment score: 7 | u/beimpermissible
				WUT? Her remarks weren't antisemitic, and her own party was ready
				to go to town on pillorying her until wiser heads prevailed.

				comment score: 1 | u/blasto_blastocyst
				New adjectives please.

		comment score: 32 | u/brazilfunk
		Why didn’t they simply refer to it as institutional racism?

			comment score: 18 | u/Ghostnappa4
			There could be a number of reasons. Why not call the structural
			definition 'racism' and refer to vanilla bigotry as 'interpersonal
			racism'? I think part of the argument would also be that, within an
			academic setting, if most people were challenged and called to
			reflect on why racism's bad and what should be done to combat it
			and how they define those terms and why, they'd leave with the same
			conclusion.  I think these concepts being something you learn
			literally in soc1 and being generally well understood and
			uncontroversial within sociology reflects that possibility on some
			level as well.

				comment score: 25 | u/meekydeaky
				> Why not call the structural definition 'racism' and refer to
				vanilla bigotry as 'interpersonal racism'? As a complete layman,
				I'd say you should if that's what you're talking about. Be as
				specific as possible and as general as necessary. Changing the
				definition of a word and assuming that everyone immediately knows
				about it and follows seems like a good recipe for
				miscommunication.

					comment score: 15 | u/mrsamsa
					> Changing the definition of a word and assuming that everyone
					immediately knows about it and follows seems like a good recipe
					for miscommunication. Just to be clear, "changing the definitions
					of words" happens all the time in science and is pretty much the
					first step before any scientific investigation can take place.
					This is simply because in order to study something then we need
					to rigorously define exactly what it is that we're interested in
					and we need to operationalise the concept into something
					observable and measurable. Usually this means that our
					definitions in science won't match the common usage, and often
					this is a good thing because common definitions can be
					contradictory, ambiguous, or whatever. For example, when
					behavioral scientists wanted to study the concept of instincts
					more seriously they looked to some common definitions to figure
					out what it is that they need to be focusing on. They found over
					100 definitions and many contradicted each other, others seemed
					completely unrelated, some were metaphorical, etc.  So the first
					step is to boil the concept down to its fundamental components.
					This will rarely perfectly match the common understanding because
					the "common understanding" will differ from person to person.
					Sometimes when we boil it down we find that the concept we're
					interested in and another related concept are in fact just
					different aspects of the same thing - so we use the same term.
					What's interesting in this situation is that the public gets very
					upset that the rigorous definition of racism differs from their
					own understanding. Note the difference with terms like "theory"
					where creationists are told emphatically that they're using the
					term incorrectly and that laymen should use the scientific
					definition, but when it comes to racism we're told that the
					scientists are wrong and they should be using the layman
					definition. I won't speculate on the reasons why there is a
					difference there but I think asking the question is worthwhile.

					comment score: 12 | u/__username_here
					> Changing the definition of a word and assuming that everyone
					immediately knows about it and follows seems like a good recipe
					for miscommunication. I don't think that's exactly what's
					happening. Academics use these terms in academic contexts; we
					don't generally expect the general public to "immediately" know
					what we're talking about (though of course, we're not talking
					about an immediate shift, but one that's been underway for
					decades.) The miscommunication is between lay people who are
					employing academic terms and lay people who aren't.

			comment score: 14 | u/RumpleDumple
			The loudest advocates of the power + prejudice definition like to
			pretend that that was always what everyone agreed the definition of
			racism was. So why have terms like "systemic racism" and
			"institutional racism"? In practice, I think it's used to excuse
			POC from behavior that most would have called racist 15 - 20 years
			ago. It's incredibly frustrating to attempt conversion with people
			who want to demonize everyone who doesn't pass their purity tests.

				comment score: 4 | u/SmytheOrdo
				Are you kidding me? The mid-late 90s was a turbulent time for
				black politics in the US at least for a reason.

					comment score: 1 | u/RumpleDumple
					I lived in a black neighborhood at the time. I'm mixed, but was
					considered white in that time and place. I've seen the ugly side
					of black nationalism. Overall, race relations are better than
					they were then.

				comment score: -6 | u/StumbleOn
				>In practice, I think it's used to excuse POC from behavior that
				most would have called racist 15 - 20 years ago. Why not simply
				call these theoretical peoples behavior bigoted then? Why do you
				believe they must conform to your usage of words and not the other
				way around?

					comment score: 7 | u/RumpleDumple
					> Why not simply call these theoretical peoples behavior [a
					sardine smoothie] then? Why do you believe they must conform to
					your usage of words and not the other way around? Language
					changes, but not without some struggle. If they're going to go
					against the majority, they had better have a better reason than
					"let's change it so **I** can't be a racist". Why not call
					denying women raises and promotions *just* bigotry? Why not call
					refusal to hire Muslims *just* bigotry?  Why not call not letting
					gays marry *just* bigotry? Precision matters when it comes to
					this kind of stuff.

						comment score: -5 | u/StumbleOn
						Looks like you're flexing some sheltered white privilege here.
						You demonize people of color to attack academics. Do you have
						something of value to add that isn't whining? Or are you trying
						to instead Uncle Tom to be a model minority and not like those
						other ones? NM dude. Your post history pegs you absolutely as a
						self hating person of color. This isn't your first rodeo. You're
						infected with reddit white supremacy hive mind group think.

							comment score: 8 | u/RumpleDumple
							Looks like you're making ignorance assumptions based on a very
							limited perspective. And now you show you hypocrisy with your >
							Why do you believe they must conform to your usage of words and
							not the other way around? line. What have I said that demonized
							anyone? "Demonization" is a pretty strong word for rolling my
							eyes at people who think they can't be racist when they make
							sweeping negative generalizations about other groups. You
							disagree with my opinions? Fine, but you can't deny that the
							way you use "racism" is historically different than the vast
							majority of people over the history of the word. I'm fine with
							sociology's definition of racism being whatever they want it to
							be, but to say that the common definition is "wrong" because it
							doesn't suit the user's rhetoric is silly.

			comment score: 8 | u/StumbleOn
			>Why didn’t they simply refer to it as institutional racism?
			Because "why not refer to it as X" will always be the question
			asked. Like I doubt you have any ill intention, but we can see with
			virtually any concept which rubs against power that no diminishment
			of any term is enough until you get to the point that a term no
			longer points toward the powerful. Look at the term white
			privilege. It describes a totally obvious phenomenon, in a neutral
			way, and is a compound of two other terms we all generally
			understand and accept. However, put them together and the question
			then becomes "why not call it something else?"  And, in the end,
			that's the game and that's the discourse. People who are dead set
			against equality will always attack your language first because
			they feel no particular desire to use language well. They only want
			to play pidgeon chess.

		comment score: 15 | u/Knightm16
		So I struggle with this a lot. For me racism has always been a
		prejudice based on race. It seems to be exaserbated and enforced
		often by power, but individuals without power can be racist. I had a
		japanese friend who was constantly being harrased by chinese
		students at my CC because of some historic animosity. I told this to
		some people at University and they said it wasn't racism, because
		the chinese students don't have power. But the japanese student
		holds no power either. And according to the teacher Chinese people
		can't be racist towards Japanese people even in china because the
		chinese don't have power thanks to imperialism? This just feels
		bonkers as China has risen to a global power. Sorry for the
		rambling. This is hard to understand as a sociology layman.

			comment score: 12 | u/Bacchaus
			ya no, it's still racist. Dude, just because a theory exists does
			not make it a brute fact of the universe.

				comment score: 1 | u/Knightm16
				The way many of the people I know talk about it you'd think it
				was.

					comment score: 1 | u/Bacchaus
					I mean, I've always felt you should be even MORE intellectually
					rigorous with people you otherwise agree with. An argument is a
					complex thing - it's possible to agree with a conclusion but not
					the argument, or only certain premises, or not at all but still
					generally agree with the "side", or... or...  Sides, groups,
					schools, etc. are all just... conceptual organizational tools, at
					the end of the day. They aren't the actual concepts themselves.
					But the concepts are what you should be concerning yourself with.

			comment score: 5 | u/AnCom9
			Incidents like that is why I sometimes feel it's best to just avoid
			the word altogether (as opposed to words like discrimination,
			mistreatment, and bigotry). If reporting mistreatment as racist
			just allows the mistreatment to continue or to be condensendingly
			downplayed, then what's the point? What's the point when the report
			just leads to others missing the point (i.e. to just tell the damn
			students to knock it off, regardless if they're "actually" being
			racist or not)? That's one of the main issues I have with the power
			plus privilege definition is how needlessly exclusive it caused the
			word to be.

		comment score: 11 | u/MasterDefibrillator
		Yes. The problem being that there is already a term for that:
		structural racism or institutional racism. So a large effect of the
		change of definition was to be divisive when it came to any kind of
		discussion. I would say it did more harm than good to the movement.

		comment score: 10 | u/MrLegilimens
		Can you please link to some of her work?

			comment score: 16 | u/Ghostnappa4
			I believe she'es most well known for [this article]
			(https://equity.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/Tatum-Talking-
			About-Race.pdf) on the topic of talking about race, with her
			perspective as an educator and then for the book [Why Are All the
			Black Kids Sitting Together in the
			Cafeteria](https://www.amazon.com/Black-Kids-Sitting-Together-
			Cafeteria/dp/0465083617)

				comment score: 2 | u/MrLegilimens
				Sorry, put it in your OP.

		comment score: 11 | u/whitehat511
		Is it really so hard to say that black people were still unfairly
		treated by the US post-civil rights (e.g. the Nixon administration
		going after them with drugs and law enforcement starting in the late
		60s) and to observe that generational wealth is a factor in the
		current state of the United States black community WITHOUT saying
		that no black person can be racist and instituting a ridiculous
		inverted racial hierarchy that's easy to abuse if you're a resentful
		idiot?

		comment score: 3 | u/ScandalousScouser (OP)
		That makes sense.

			comment score: 0 | u/None
			[removed]

				comment score: 1 | u/ScandalousScouser (OP)
				Thank you. I’m very uncomfortable talking about this stuff, and it
				means a lot to have more qualified people help - rather than me
				getting sucked into a dark YouTube spiral.  I guess Netflix has a
				show called “White People” where the antagonist said the same
				thing to a character “black people cant be racist... power +
				prejudice.”

					comment score: 3 | u/MadnessofKingHippo
					The show is called “Dear White People”, based off the movie of
					the same name.  I suggest watching the original film, it’s much
					better and gets into all of this and other issues surrounding
					racism, gender, education, classism, etc.  while also critiquing
					it too, and critiquing how human failings and our nature often
					leads us to be more hypercritical or contradicting than we would
					like to admit.

						comment score: 3 | u/ScandalousScouser (OP)
						Yeah, honestly, I’m probably being hypercritical myself haha

		comment score: 6 | u/hainew
		This is quite insightful in the sense that it implicitly highlights
		that the new definition is Marxist (material rationalist) where as
		the old one is liberal (individual virtue based).  That said, words
		mean what people use them to mean and so long as the great majority
		of people in anglo civilisation continue to use the word racist to
		mean somebody who makes detrimental judgements about another
		individual based on his race then that is what the word means
		whatever the new-Marxist humanities academics tell you, and MLK
		wouldn’t let you forget it.

		comment score: 2 | u/punninglinguist
		But who *first* came up with the notion that racism is a system
		rather than a personality trait?

			comment score: 3 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			Racism was never defined as a *personality trait*. I would contend
			it's an attitude (specifically prejudice), for the rest see my
			answer below (who *first* came with the definition in the title is
			as far as I know Bidol in the 70s).

				comment score: 1 | u/punninglinguist
				Yes, "attitude" a better word for what I mean: a quality of a
				person rather than a system.

	comment score: 48 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	[That definition of racism originated in the 70s.](https://www.reddit
	.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/ajs531/did_the_modern_use_of_the_ter
	m_racism_originate/ef0ahis/) But as I argue in that thread, I would
	not consider it a mainstream nor common definition of racism. As in,
	the term racism *normally* refers to racial prejudice regardless of
	the individual's status or power, unless it is explicitly
	operationalized differently. It can be argued to be useful in the
	context of criticizing the current system of power and to criticize
	Western society, as in to talk about *institutional* racism. But as I
	said, I would not suggest that racism is commonly defined as such,
	except perhaps in critical studies.  At least, it is another
	conceptualization of racism and to say its "definition has changed"
	is incorrect. It is conceptualized differently in some specific
	contexts.

		comment score: 7 | u/ScandalousScouser (OP)
		Okay, yeah - like this, 100% agree. Thanks :)

			comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			Welcome :)

		comment score: 4 | u/AnCom9
		>  I would not consider it a mainstream nor common definition of
		racism. To add to that for /u/ScandalousScouser, disparate impact
		and disparate treatment is another term that's used when talking
		about racial discrimination.
		https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/discrimination/
		https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-
		qa/pages/disparateimpactdisparatetreatment.aspx

			comment score: 2 | u/ScandalousScouser (OP)
			Yeah, I learned that from the answers. Thank you :)

		comment score: -14 | u/VollkiP
		What? That is the mainstream definition of racism. The "racism" you
		are referring to is simply called "prejudice".

			comment score: 18 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			What? No, **prejudice** is an "antipathy based upon a faulty and
			inflexible generalization" to quote [Gordon
			Allport](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Nature_of_Prejudice), or
			to put it more clearly, an unreasonable (biased) negative affect
			towards an outgroup and/or members of that outgroup. Racism is one
			form of prejudice, specifically *racial* prejudice. For comparison,
			sexual prejudice is sexism.

				comment score: -15 | u/VollkiP
				No, racism != racial prejudice *specifically* because of the lack
				of power. Any person can be prejudiced towards another group, but
				not all groups can be racist (e.g. blacks in the US).

					comment score: 16 | u/Revue_of_Zero
					I will send you back to my main reply here and on the other
					thread.  The idea to *conceptualize* racism as requiring power
					was introduced in the 1970s in a specific context, several
					decades after racism became a concept in the social sciences to
					refer to racial discrimination and prejudice. Racism
					conceptualized as such remains, as far as I am concerned, the
					main conceptualization. Bido's and Katz's conceptualization might
					be useful and be of interest in the context of critical studies
					and papers about power, but I do not perceive it as being more
					widespread than that.

						comment score: -11 | u/VollkiP
						Obviously, I've said that you're wrong--that it is the accepted,
						mainstream, definition in the academic circles in the West. [I
						find it very hard to believe that if that view is accepted and
						is mainstream in anthropology, that it would be different in
						"social sciences".](https://www.americananthro.org/ConnectWithAA
						A/Content.aspx?ItemNumber=2583)

							comment score: 16 | u/EatMyBiscuits
							“in academic circles in the West” seems like an important new
							caveat to your original statement

								comment score: 3 | u/VollkiP
								I assume the discussion here is mainly discussed within the
								context of the views of students or academics in the "West".
								"West" is a rather broad and a bad term, but just to say, I am
								familiar with that, for example, some anthropology scholars in
								Russian and China still don't accept the view that race is
								just a social and not a biological construct (or, more
								precisely, that race is a biological reality) and, with that,
								don't necessarily define racism in terms of power dynamics.
								P.S. In no way do I mean that race doesn't exist when I say it
								is a social construct. It is not *real* in that there are no
								biological differences between "races" but there are real
								consequences that come from people using concepts of race.
								...Well, let's not delve into metaphysics.

							comment score: 9 | u/Revue_of_Zero
							If we are going to rely on what associations publish about
							racism to argue how widespread a given concept is, then [this
							article published by the American Psychological Association
							explicitly cites the definition according to which racism is a
							particular form of prejudice](https://www.apa.org/pi/about/news
							letter/2015/12/racism-psychology).  Sure, it also tackles the
							issue of power and argues that it is important to also take it
							into account to understand racism more globally, but that does
							not make it an integral part of the definition, rather an
							important dimension to consider when discussing on the topic.
							But therein lies the important distinction between racism at
							the individual level and structural or institutional racism.
							Now, that statement by the AAA does not appear to provide any
							attempt of explicitly defining *racism*. It deals about race
							and the ideology attached to it, and how racial ideas are
							attached to power structures, but that alone does not mean that
							racism is to be defined as prejudice plus power. **Edit**: To
							go a step further, I just opened this
							[handbook](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Handbook+of+Psychology%2
							C+Volume+5%2C+Personality+and+Social+Psychology%2C+2nd+Edition-
							p-9780470647769), as I consider this kind of text more
							pertinent to discuss about definitions in use: > Prejudice
							(i.e., biased and usually negative attitudes toward social
							groups and their members), **racism (a negatively oriented
							prejudice toward certain groups seen as biologically different
							and inferior to one’s own)**, and discrimination (unfair
							behavior or unequal treatment accorded others on the basis of
							their group membership or possession of an arbitrary trait,
							such as skin color) have been favored topics of research and
							theorizing for many years by psychologists—especially social
							and personality psychologists—around the world. Of these three
							concepts, prejudice is perhaps the most central and important.
							Prejudice underlies racism and is also believed to motivate
							acts of discrimination. You will find pretty much the same
							definition in any other encyclopedia and handbook of (social)
							psychology, and in most research about both individual and
							inter-group racial attitudes and discrimination.

								comment score: -2 | u/VollkiP
								Wait, did you open your first article?  >>Hoyt Jr. (2012)
								defines racism as “a particular form of prejudice defined by
								preconceived erroneous beliefs about race and members of
								racial groups.” According to this definition, we can see how
								racism is built up around stereotypes, assumptions and
								prejudiced views. **However, racism is not simply a prejudiced
								viewpoint**. Wellman (1993) fleshes out the definition and
								understanding of racism, showing how it not only includes
								interpersonal biases, but is present in institutional,
								historical and structural dynamics, which perpetuate the power
								and advantages of the dominant group.   >>Because racism
								benefits those in power, it is imperative to include the
								concept of privilege when addressing the reality of racism.
								Kendall Clark (n.d.) defines privilege as the possession of an
								advantage a dominant group enjoys over an oppressed group. The
								word hints at the interplay of privilege and oppression.
								George Lipsitz (2006) explains how privilege and racism go
								hand in hand, involving those who benefit from and those who
								are oppressed by a racist system.  Did you read that? Hm...
								>>Now, that statement by the AAA does not appear to provide
								any attempt of explicitly defining racism. It deals about race
								and the ideology attached to it, and how racial ideas are
								attached to power structures, but that alone does not mean
								that racism is to be defined as prejudice plus power. No, but
								it is very clearly (at least to me) stating the race was
								invented due to power dynamics, and that the discussion of
								race should always be talked within the context of power. If
								you read their amazing book [Race: Are We So
								Different?](https://www.amazon.com/Race-Are-We-So-Different/dp
								/0470657146/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1360182517&sr=8-1&keywords=
								Race%3A+Are+We+So+Different), that is the whole argument.
								That handbook is more valid, although it is a handbook of
								*psychology* and I'm not that familiar with that field. Is
								that definition common in many psychological texts? The
								power+prejudice one (which is actually a simplification) is
								very common in anthropology.

									comment score: 9 | u/Revue_of_Zero
									I did, and to me their argument is explicitly applied to a
									different level of analysis and context and that the
									discourse is to be understood as when applied to tackling the
									structural issues related to racism.  For me the key piece is
									that "[racism] **is present** in institutional, historical
									and structural dynamics" and *not* that that *is* what racism
									solely is. It is fine to consider several factors that
									intersect with racism, fuels it or and its consequences, that
									does not mean the specific definition has to include power,
									etc. After all, "[...] racism **benefits** those in power"
									rather than being their sole propriety. That is how I
									interpret it, at least according to my background. As it
									should be obvious, anthropology is not my field of study. I
									attempted to find some explicit definitions of racism but I
									only found texts about racism as an ideology (but also
									definitions of racism which are not too different from the
									one I provided earlier, albeit with different words), so I
									remain dubious of how widespread one definition is over
									another (I have come out thinking there are several in
									anthropology). But for your question: yes. In psychology
									(including both social and cultural psychology) we normally
									conceptualize racism as racial prejudice, stringing up from
									Allport among other important scholars. Racism is not
									*usually* tackled as a specific ideology (I will come back to
									this below), but as a specific type of prejudice.  Even when
									we consider the issues of power (and we do as we are also
									very invested in majority and minority dynamics and
									structural issues), the definition of racism itself does not
									fundamentally change. See for example [social dominance theor
									y](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_dominance_theory).
									Sidanius and Pratto *do* talk about racism when tackling
									"hierarchy-enhancing ideologies", as the myth of racial
									superiority allows to legitimize an unjust society (a
									hierarchy) by providing a moral and intellectual
									justification (so even then I would not distill what they are
									saying as racism being prejudice+power, rather that that kind
									of prejudice is beneficial to justifying power in the hands
									of a majority group, it is a vehicle). Or to cite [this
									interesting text](http://oxfordre.com/communication/view/10.1
									093/acrefore/9780190228613.001.0001/acrefore-9780190228613-e-
									164#acrefore-9780190228613-e-164-div2-8) I found earlier, our
									definition would lean towards the second kind (and Hoyt's),
									whereas I suppose according to you, in anthropology it leans
									towards the first kind. If you are correct in saying that in
									anthropology your definition is quite common, then in
									hindsight I would further nuance my assertion and state that
									in the larger social sciences several definitions of racism
									can be found according to the focus and objectives of each
									field, and that *at least* in psychology the definition of
									racism is racial prejudice. I am familiar with sociology too,
									and do not have the impression that the definition of racism
									as prejudice+power is the main definition, but that is not my
									main field of study.

										comment score: 1 | u/VollkiP
										Alright, I'm back and I'm toning the whole thing down, sorry
										I was condescending before. >>I did, and for me it is clear
										by reading it that their argument applies to a different
										level of analysis and context and that the rest of the
										discourse is about tackling the issue structurally. For me
										the key piece is that "[racism] is present in institutional,
										historical and structural dynamics" and not that is what
										racism solely is. It is fine to consider several factors
										that intersect with racism, that does not mean the specific
										definition has to include power. After all, "[...] racism
										benefits those in power" rather than being their sole
										propriety. That is how I interpret it, at least according to
										my background, and I also agree/accept that definition. I
										see where you are coming from, but to my understanding, this
										states that racism cannot be solely thought of as a racial
										prejudice on an individual level: "Wellman (1993) fleshes
										out the definition and understanding of racism, showing how
										it not only includes interpersonal biases, but is present in
										institutional, historical and structural dynamics, which
										perpetuate the power and advantages of the dominant group."
										More so, I believe the author of that article is accepting
										that definition too, because that's what the paper is about
										--it's not about whether psychologists hate other races than
										what they are, but about systematic racial/ethnic issues in
										the academia in the field of psychology or how studies are
										conducted. Correct me if I'm wrong.  Disclaimer: I'm not a
										social scientist or an anthropologist, but I have a hobby of
										reading various monographs (especially anthropological) for
										"fun". I did take a load of classes on the topic in college.
										I guess with time I'd like to become one, though... Alright,
										well, from all I've read and from what all I've seen, this
										is how the issue of race is handled in anthropology. AAA is
										quite a major body and is authoritative, and that's why I
										referred to it. Do note, that I never said that racism is
										necessarily about an ideology (although it depends how we
										define an ideology, but lets not go there), it's more about
										privilege and how they handle the lack of privilege for
										other groups (people don't have to be openly racist to be
										racist)--I think a lot of critical race theory has been
										incorporated into the whole discourse on that topic in
										anthropology (and to that, you could say that CRT is
										definitely more "politicized").  >>Even when we consider the
										issues of power (and we do as we are also very invested in
										majority and minority dynamics and structural issues), the
										definition of racism itself does not change. See for example
										social dominance theory and Sidanius who does argue that
										racism is a "hierarchy-enhancing ideology", it is not in
										terms of power (although one could talk about power) rather
										than it being the externalization of a myth of racial
										superiority which legitimizes an unjust society (a
										hierarchy). You make it sound like I just dismissed the
										whole notion of race/ethnicity, but I don't think I ever
										implied that. To me, the "hierarchy-enhancing ideology" is
										completely related to power dynamics. I think the SDT
										description on Wiki is a pretty good example of what racism
										is. I did also state that "power+racial prejudice = racism"
										is a simplified version of a very complex issue.  That
										article is going through all the same issues that I thought
										you were already aware of: "Can minority members be
										“racist”? Beyond the nature of race itself, researchers and
										educators debate the very nature of racism. Some contend
										that racism is an intolerance based on the construction of
										race that is perpetrated and held by the support of the
										dominant system. For example, Malott and Schaefle (2015)
										define racism as “a system of oppression, whereby persons of
										a dominant racial group (whites in the United States)
										exercise power or privilege over those in nondominant
										groups” (p. 361). According to this argument, only whites
										can be racist in a white-dominated system (whether that
										dominance is by numbers or in political and social power).
										Others contend that racism is any system of beliefs—“held
										consciously or otherwise”—that treats members of a group
										that is different on supposedly biological grounds as
										“biologically different than one’s own” (Herbst, 1997, p.
										193). By this definition, anyone who sees another race group
										as inferior would be racist." Next paragraph is also great,
										I especially like the section on how to combat racism--as an
										individual or structural question. Now, to go off a tangent,
										my thoughts is that there need to be both, since all systems
										are made up of individuals.  Anyhow, through both articles I
										saw that the power+prejudice definition if not mainstream,
										is very common throughout. Of course, there are multiple
										definitions and wordings of all kinds of concepts, but
										honestly, it's been a long while that I've seen an article
										that went into racism as specifically an individual
										prejudice and focused on hate crimes.

		comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
		>this states that racism cannot be solely thought of as a racial
		prejudice on an individual level Which is *different* from defining
		racism as *not* being racial prejudice, or defining racism as
		*requiring* power to be observed. There is a difference in modelling
		racism as to increasing power or as to be a potential result of
		power dynamics. >You make it sound like I just dismissed the whole
		notion of race/ethnicity, but I don't think I ever implied that. I
		am not sure what you mean here, our discussion is around whether in
		the mainstream (or in different fields) racism is defined as racial
		prejudice or as power+prejudice. >Alright, well, from all I've read
		and from what all I've seen, this is how the issue of race is
		handled in anthropology. I am not sufficiently familiar with
		anthropology to comment on how commonly racism is defined as
		*power+prejudice* or at least how commonly it is explicitly
		distinguished from *racial prejudice*. For example, checking [this
		book on Anthropology](https://www.amazon.com/Anthropology-
		Perspective-Raymond-Scupin-Ph-D/dp/0205181023) what I find is: >
		However, it cannot be denied that humans in both the past and the
		present have used various racial classifications to categorize
		people and develop stereotypes about the behavior and mental
		abilities of different “racial categories.” These categories have
		often been used throughout human history as the basis and
		justification of racism, the belief that some races are superior to
		others. Racism can often result in discrimination and hostile acts
		toward different peoples and societies (Fredrickson 2002) And in the
		glossary I find this: >**racism** Beliefs and practices that
		advocate the superiority of certain races and the inferiority of
		others I do not really see racism being defined *that* differently
		than what I am familiar with. In those quotes it is defined more as
		a belief rather than an attitude, but I can understand that
		considering it's anthropology and not psychology, so the level of
		analysis is a bit different.  I mean, sure, for example I do find
		[statements such that](https://www.amazon.com/Encyclopedia-Cultural-
		Anthropology-Routledge-Reference/dp/0415285585) "[t]he work of
		Stuart Hall, Paul Gilroy, Hazel Carby and others drew attention to
		the importance of racism and imperialism to the maintenance of state
		power" and sure, racism is a useful belief, ideology or set of
		attitudes to maintain power.  In the same encyclopedia I found this
		instance of racism: >Race resulted in racism, the cultural and
		ideological formation that shapes perception and evaluation of self
		and others according to racial identity, which is institutionalized
		in both interpersonal and larger-scale behavioural social orders.
		Which is also not too different from my definition. Attitudes are
		composed of emotional, cognitive and behavioral dimensions, racial
		prejudice is negative attitude as in feeling antipathy towards a
		group, perceiving it as bad and wanting to behave badly towards
		them. The above quote for me recognizes that racism can be
		institutionalized, not that racism is *by definition*
		institutionalized. That is how I would interpret it. Importance is
		given to the macro-level dimension of racism, but I chalk that up to
		the field's pov. This is why I remain...cautiously dubious about
		stating with certitude that racism is definitely defined as
		different than racial prejudice, or at least that racism is
		absolutely "prejudice+power" as defined by Bidol and Katz. > I did
		also state that "power+racial prejudice = racism" is a simplified
		version of a very complex issue.  If you do not think that *is* the
		definition, I would suggest avoiding strongly objecting to
		objections to that "simplified" definition. I would definitely agree
		with you that racism *interacts* with power or that institutions and
		majority groups *benefit* from racism, which to me is a better
		message also for laypeople. But this is my personal opinion. >That
		article is going through all the same issues that I thought you were
		already aware of: "Can minority members be “racist”? Yes, indeed. I
		shared it as I found it while searching for definitions of racism
		according to anthropologists and considered it interesting that it
		posited such a question. As far as I am aware of as an academic,
		that *really* is *not* a question you will commonly find *at least*
		in the field of psychology because racism *is* racial prejudice.
		I've since checked Mallot and Schaefle's text and they were actually
		citing [Horton](https://ubwp.buffalo.edu/aps-cus/wp-
		content/uploads/sites/16/2015/07/Reconsidering-Wealth-Status.pdf),
		who does actually to talk about racism for structural oppression.
		But it is in the context of *[Critical Demography](https://www.alban
		y.edu/~hdh/criticaldemography/Toward.html)* thus it is not
		surprising to me, because I do recognize it as a concept that would
		be in vogue in *critical studies*. I would still conclude that
		racism as "power + prejudice" is *not* a mainstream definition and
		that it is a *critical* definition. It *might* be often used in
		anthropology, I will concede just that for now. And no problem about
		the condescension, I appreciate the apology. I can understand the
		passion.

			comment score: 1 | u/VollkiP
			>>Which is different from defining racism as not being racial
			prejudice, or defining racism as requiring power to be observed.
			There is a difference in modelling racism as to increasing power or
			as to be a potential result of power dynamics. >>I am not sure what
			you mean here, our discussion is around whether in the mainstream
			(or in different fields) racism is defined as racial prejudice or
			as power+prejudice. >>I am not sufficiently familiar with
			anthropology to comment on how commonly racism is defined as
			power+prejudice or at least how commonly it is explicitly
			distinguished from racial prejudice. Uh, I guess I missed that. I
			was always implying that within racism the prejudice is based on
			*racial* (and ethnic/cultural!) prejudice in the little formula
			that we're discussing. Also, it must be by what we are "trained",
			but as soon as you start talking about racism beyond the individual
			level, I see it as "power"--that's why I argue that the article
			that you've linked is talking precisely about the definition I'm
			arguing about.  >>For example, checking this book on Anthropology
			what I find is: >>However, it cannot be denied that humans in both
			the past and the present have used various racial classifications
			to categorize people and develop stereotypes about the behavior and
			mental abilities of different “racial categories.” These categories
			have often been used throughout human history as the basis and
			justification of racism, the belief that some races are superior to
			others. Racism can often result in discrimination and hostile acts
			toward different peoples and societies (Fredrickson 2002) >>And in
			the glossary I find this: >>racism Beliefs and practices that
			advocate the superiority of certain races and the inferiority of
			others Sadly, I don't have most of the textbooks anymore. A lot of
			other books don't necessarily state it openly, and that's why I've
			refereed to how race and racism are covered--e..g in Peter Wade's
			*Race and Ethnicity in Latin America* or *Articulating While Black*
			by H. Samy Alim and Geneva Smitherman. I do admit that the second
			title borrows a lot from CRT, but I'll come back to that.  >>I
			mean, sure, for example I do find statements such that "[t]he work
			of Stuart Hall, Paul Gilroy, Hazel Carby and others drew attention
			to the importance of racism and imperialism to the maintenance of
			state power" and sure, racism is a useful belief, ideology or set
			of attitudes to maintain power. >>In the same encyclopedia I found
			this instance of racism: >>Race resulted in racism, the cultural
			and ideological formation that shapes perception and evaluation of
			self and others according to racial identity, which is
			institutionalized in both interpersonal and larger-scale
			behavioural social orders. See, I actually agree with such a
			definition--the inclusion of the fact that racism is
			institutionalized in larger-scale social orders is quite different
			from me then *just* interpersonal. To me, that *is* "power".  Note
			the word **is** institutionalized, that's why I assume it is by
			definition.  >>>>I did also state that "power+racial prejudice =
			racism" is a simplified version of a very complex issue. >>If you
			do not think that is the definition, I would suggest avoiding
			strongly objecting to objections to that "simplified" definition. I
			would definitely agree with you that racism interacts with power or
			that institutions and majority groups benefit from racism, which to
			me is a better message also for laypeople. But this is my personal
			opinion. It is not a definition, but it is the essence of the
			definitions that I encounter. As you saw, there were 3 definitions
			that I've agreed with from the materials that you alone have
			provided. I call is simplified because both "power" and "race" can
			be defined differently by different fields, over time, history, and
			geography, and other variables that I might've forgotten. I agree
			about the message for laypeople, however; it *is* what CRT is
			working with.  >>This is why I remain...cautiously dubious about
			stating with certitude that racism is definitely defined as
			different than racial prejudice, or at least that racism is
			absolutely "prejudice+power" as defined by Bidol and Katz.
			Actually, funny enough, the whole definition of "systematic racism"
			was brought by not even fully-fledged academics (well, one was).
			Don't quite remember the name, but both were black and civil rights
			activists.  >>Yes, indeed. I shared it as I found it while
			searching for definitions of racism according to anthropologists
			and considered it interesting that it posited such a question. As
			far as I am aware of as an academic, that really is not a question
			you will commonly find at least in the field of psychology because
			racism is racial prejudice. Well, if I have to say a last word on
			the topic, since this is taking a lot our time and isn't that
			*critical*, forgive my humor, I'd say I agree that both definitions
			are viable. I can start arguing that, however, the second
			definition is more productive for anthropology and sociology, but
			maybe not so much for psychology. >>I've since checked Mallot and
			Schaefle's text and they were actually citing Horton, who does
			actually to talk about racism for structural oppression. But it is
			in the context of Critical Demography thus it is not surprising to
			me, because I do recognize it as a concept that would be in vogue
			in critical studies. >>I would still conclude that racism as "power
			+ prejudice" is not a mainstream definition and that it is a
			critical definition. It might be often used in anthropology, I will
			concede just that for now. Coming back to this--why are critical
			studies so controversial--still, in social science? Just recently,
			one of the CRTs and sociologists--and, actually, a renowned race
			scholar who talks about all of which we did--Eduardo Bonillo Silva
			--has been selected as the president of ASA. His work has
			definitely been recognized. I do understand that CRT is a little
			"dubious" to "classical" theorists because CRTs usually have an
			active *sociopolitical* stance and do engage in activism. That is
			actually quite a sharp problem in anthropology, as anthropologists
			do a LOT of field-work and commonly field-work with minority or
			oppressed groups--some anthropologists do make activism and the
			support of their "study subjects" (this makes me cringe since
			anthropologists would never say that about their "informants", but
			forgive me for a lack of a better term right now) a quite important
			thing one in their work. [Here is a link to read a little bit about
			it](http://www.americananthropologist.org/2017/03/27/activist-
			anthropology-a-conversation-between-daniel-m-goldstein-and-keisha-
			khan-y-perry/). >>I would still conclude that racism as "power +
			prejudice" is not a mainstream definition and that it is a critical
			definition. It might be often used in anthropology, I will concede
			just that for now. I can concede that both definitions are quite
			common in social sciences, but that doesn't mean I don't think the
			"power+prejudiced" is less mainstream in academia than just the
			"interpersonal prejudice".  No problem, it was fun to remember
			these concepts and argue about them a bit again; it definitely
			makes me check my sources and read on even more.  Would you
			recommend any monographs/book that talk about psychology on a more
			popular (but yet accurate) level just for a leisure read? Not
			looking to dive deep into it because I'm not *that* interested, but
			would like to know more on a surface level.

				comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
				I forgot to reply, sorry. But yes, I agree that we have both
				discussed about the topic long enough, and said a lot. Regarding
				critical studies...it's hard for me to say anything factual.
				Besides that I cannot really talk for everyone, critical
				psychology is not much of a thing anymore, as far as I am aware.
				If we are flexible with what is or was critical criminology,
				movements like anti-psychiatry taught something to psychology and
				the field adapted itself to counter the criticisms (such as
				decreasing institutionalization and promoting community services).
				In criminology, critical criminology is often criticized for its
				tendency for almost conspiratorial thinking about the State or for
				not providing actionable solutions to what it considers to be
				problems (e.g. such as suggesting that several state organs in a
				democratic country work in tandem to consciously and voluntarily
				control labor force). But there are more and less extreme theses.
				In general, I would say that the "problem" is that critical
				studies are per their nature niche fields focused on some very
				specific topics: power, the State and social control. It can
				provide interesting viewpoints to nuance the mainstream, but they
				can only be applied to specific topics for specific purposes.
				Mainstream fields also care about power, institutions, etc. but
				not in the same manner as the main objective is not to "critique".
				For example, to me, racism as prejudice+power makes sense if you
				want to critique society and its institutions and how the State
				(or the society) benefits from inequalities. But, still in my
				opinion, that means that the critical definition is limited in
				scope. Meshing power *and* prejudice together into a single
				concept would not be as useful and flexible to me in my field as
				keeping them separate and taking into account both objects if
				needed depending on the level of analysis and the study at hand.
				Likewise if we consider someone like Szasz a critical
				psychiatrist, his objections are interesting epistemologically
				(*what* is mental illness?) but otherwise untenable as his
				arguments rely a lot on Big Pharma conspiracies, psychiatrists and
				psychologists inventing mental illnesses to keep power and
				maintain social control, etc. You can easily see why such
				interpretations and approaches can be controversial to say the
				least. I am afraid I do not read much lite reading books about
				psychology so I cannot suggest anything for the topic at hand
				(prejudice, racism, attitudes, etc.). But if you are interested in
				human rationality and irrationality, Dan Ariely got some neat/fun
				books meant for laypeople.

					comment score: 1 | u/VollkiP
					Yeah, I get where you are coming from; I'm in no way of
					supporting conspiracy theories or anything like that; I'm also
					not familiar with critical psychology or criminology.  I also
					didn't state that I draw most of my information from critical
					studies (but as I said, the field that I've seen referred from to
					the most in the sociology/anthropology monographs I've read (from
					critical studies) is critical race theory--along with whiteness
					studies, which are not per se a part of critical studies;
					overall, I think "whiteness" is an established concept in
					anthropology and sociology afaik, but, of course, definitions
					vary). What I forgot to consider, is that the analysis can be
					performed in a few ways, including on an individual ("racism by
					intention") level, as well as on the "everyday racism" level
					which combines and examines the complex relationship between the
					"institutional/systematic" ("power+prejudice") and the "racism by
					intent".  Again, it also depends on the analysis level and needs
					--for psychology "racism" as is can be very beneficial, but for
					anthropology or sociology, the "power+prejudice" definition is
					often more productive. Of course, some academics use both or
					combine both. Again, I think what I conceded agrees with this
					observation.  Alright, I'll check him out. For a quick reading on
					race and stuff from an anthropological perspective, I'd throw the
					Race: Are We So Different? which is very accessible to both
					laypeople and academics, and , I'd say, relatively short. If
					you'd like anything else on the topic, I'll share what I can!
					Have a good night!

									comment score: 7 | u/dirtyploy
									In history, it is understood that when the term "racism" is
									used - we are referring to systemic racism. We have to make
									this distinction, I believe, because we are dealing with
									periods where racism is not whites/other groups, OR is
									white/white... for example, the Han in China during specific
									periods having racist laws and beliefs against non-Han
									groups. Or the English vs Welsh, Scottish... etc. I do need
									to note that being condescending towards others - as you have
									been countless times in this thread - does not help you
									educate others. If your attempt is to teach others and
									broaden their understanding of what racism is, being
									violently derisive of others - especially the OP and their
									lack of higher academic education- is uncalled for. You're
									leaving a bad taste in people's mouths toward the rest of us
									in academia...

					comment score: 5 | u/ScandalousScouser (OP)
					What do you want me to do? I get my words from the dictionary
					cause I’m not getting social journals mailed to my house. Like,
					the dictionary, we all share, says you’re wrong.  I’m not arguing
					that their clearly isn’t ANOTHER definition. But applying broader
					truths (white have more power than blacks) is not going to work
					on the individual level.

						comment score: 7 | u/Choosing_is_a_sin
						This is a very naive view of dictionaries, one that those of us
						in the field of lexicography would not defend. Dictionaries
						frequently miss important senses, or do not include them because
						they are hard to exemplify or belong to subfields that are not
						included in the dictionary in question. A dictionary is a group
						of people's best attempts to render meaning, which is context-
						bound, into a static definition based on the texts that they
						preselected without reading. Even now, they are wrestling with
						this very question of how to define the word. Please do not use
						dictionaries, which do not agree among themselves on the
						definitions of words, as sources of authority.

						comment score: 1 | u/VollkiP
						Study social science, but preferably anthropology (that's just
						me)--you definitely should do that. Take a 100-200 level course
						at your local community college. Overall, you should get
						educated (why? there is a ton of data which indicates that
						higher education => better earnings in your lifetime, at the
						very least), if you haven't got the chance yet. Of course, [most
						dictionaries (which is arguable*) try to jot down the words as
						they are used in daily/common
						life](https://blog.oxforddictionaries.com/2013/02/08/when-does-
						wrong-become-right/). I would argue that only recently the word
						"racism" in the power+prejudice definition has started to come
						down to the "masses" from the academic circle (for that you can
						check out popular left-leaning media like Vox, Bustle, etc.).
						Racism in its academic definition talks about groups rather than
						just individuals. Whites have the most power in the US and many
						other countries in the world, but the academic definition of
						racism doesn't apply to just "colors"--it is primarily about
						dynamics of power. As an example, think about the Han Chinese
						ethnicity--they are the major group in China and are racist
						towards non-Han minorities, even if they are all "Asian" or
						"Chinese". Another example would be the Civil War in Rwanda -
						the Rwandan genocide is a direct example of racism (even though
						Hutus and Tutsies are both "Black" or "African").  The person
						you were talking was obviously prejudiced, I agree with that.
						But was she racist? Not necessarily.

							comment score: 6 | u/ScandalousScouser (OP)
							Okay, I’ll check those sites out. Probs not going to pay for a
							class though, and a little rude to suggest that’s something
							people can just do willy nilly. This is why I use reddit. Not
							to mention, I don’t have time or money. I live in a trailer, in
							a town in South Dakota where 20% of the town is living in
							poverty. Most of whom are white. Getting called “white trash”
							by the white yuppies y’all teach.

								comment score: 2 | u/VollkiP
								Hey, you have internet and that’s quite a lot already; forgive
								my assumptions. Find and download a textbook on one of those
								subjects.  Yeah, that is also prejudice. I still favorably say
								that if you can go into trades or get a technology/engineering
								degree, you will most likely end up in a better place than you
								are right now and will be able to give back to your community.

							comment score: 5 | u/ScandalousScouser (OP)
							Try going to college with 2 kids, and a full time job you need
							to attend. I really don’t like you’re little elitist remark at
							the start there. I work very hard. “Get educated.” K, thanks.

								comment score: 1 | u/VollkiP
								Look, I'm sorry. I never implied that you are not smart. I
								thought you were a high school kid or a young adult. I also
								didn't mean that you need to major in sociology or
								anthropology when and/or if you go to college. Hell, as I
								said, you'd better be off with an associates in applied
								technology right now. But it is true that going to college
								will help you (as long as you get at least an associates)
								increase earnings over your lifetime and make a stronger case
								for social mobility--all of which I'm in favor of. You might
								qualify for grants or scholarships too. I did not mean to put
								down your work ethic or scold you for not knowing. I'm sorry.
								If there's anything I can help you with, I'd be glad to. As I
								said, you can download all kinds of textbooks online that are
								open-source or are free. I also prefer anthropology to
								sociology to study because it is such a "human" science. While
								sociology might be a bit more "abstract", in anthropology you
								learn about the people you see everyday, you learn about
								yourself, and you learn about humankind. I recommend this site
								to learn more about race overall:
								http://www.understandingrace.org/

						comment score: 1 | u/AnCom9
						While dictionaries are more convenient sources, it may still be
						best to rely on academic sources (e.g. academic journal
						articles) or at least "quasi academic" sources (e.g. Stanford
						Encyclopedia and, if we are going to talk about dictionaries,
						Oxford dictionary). Those sources would be written by
						professors, usually involve peer review, might be published and
						maintained by Universities (e.g. Stanford in regards to Stanford
						Encyclopedia), etc. > I’m not getting social journals mailed to
						my house. You don't need to do that to gain access to them. You
						can use free online libraries or websites such as JSTOR and
						Academia.edu (Google search can also bring up free Journal
						PDFs). Along with those, you can use a Google Scholar account to
						save and organize journal articles. I agree with the other
						person that you should study social science if you're really
						interested in learning about social issues (you can see if your
						local library has free CEU courses or txt books if budget is an
						issue). But you should avoid giving anthropology, political
						science (my area of interest), or any other discipline special
						treatment (same goes for Social Philosophy). They all have
						highly trained researchers who contribute to social research in
						some way. Their contributions go into much more detail and rigor
						than what dictionaries provide.

							comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
							I agree that referring to dictionaries for accurate
							descriptions of complex social phenomena is not a good idea,
							but I do not think that society at large should be told to
							study a social science to be able to understand social
							phenomena that are daily occurrences and/or important to
							society. I am thinking of [public
							sociology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_sociology) and
							of [public
							criminology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_criminology):
							I believe us academics should make a greater effort in engaging
							laypeople and making sure they are well informed and that they
							can understand our theories and findings. Sure, if you *really*
							want to understand, take a discipline. But I am sympathetic to
							OP and to their objections. So I would rather just suggest a
							digestible book or a decent TED talk than to tell them to go to
							university.

								comment score: 2 | u/AnCom9
								> us academics So others don't have the wrong idea, I want to
								clarify I'm not an academic. > So I would rather just suggest
								a digestible book or a decent TED talk than to tell them to go
								to university. I agree, I meant "study" in a broad sense,
								including going to university **or** going to the local
								library for free CEU courses and txt books. What's important
								is that you're not, for example, just watching politicized
								YouTube videos after glancing at the dictionary.

									comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
									That's fair! I can agree with that.

					comment score: 0 | u/Lazyleader
					Your professor has lied to you.

	comment score: 9 | u/None
	[removed]

	comment score: 4 | u/TychoCelchuuu
	This comes up pretty often. Some places to start: https://reddit.com/
	r/AskSocialScience/comments/10pky7/sociological_definition_of_racisms
	exism/?st=jqxj0dd7&sh=19c6483a https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/
	comments/40iwvr/i_see_many_argue_its_impossible_to_be_racist/?st=jqxj
	0eqb&sh=de92d274 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/2to4r
	e/is_prejudice_power_racism_given_preference_or/?st=jqxj0gbw&sh=9f59c
	8af https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/3j8wl6/is_there_an
	y_literature_on_the_existence_or_lack/?st=jqxj0hzi&sh=ddf55d34 https:
	//reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/1kq6e6/racism_prejudice_powe
	r_is_this_a_legitimate/?st=jqxj0iyf&sh=9416c34e https://reddit.com/r/
	AskSocialScience/comments/3smkja/why_cant_black_people_be_racist/?st=
	jqxj0kj9&sh=141f5246 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/1
	cl6rs/im_not_sure_if_this_belongs_here_but_can_other/?st=jqxj0mdo&sh=
	ff206317 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/1l2gwp/what_a
	re_the_sociological_definitions_of_racism/?st=jqxj0rhf&sh=a8a3679b ht
	tps://www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/ag5jq5/when_where_an
	d_how_did_the_only_white_people_can/?st=jrcu9fho&sh=24c78f8c

	comment score: 2 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/None
		[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 57 | r/AskSocialScience | u/ensbana | 12 comments | 2020-05-25 | https://redd.it/gqidto
POST TITLE: How do social theorists come up with their theories, and how are they used in either research and policy making?
I actually majored in sociology back in college, and was fascinated with insights and new ways of looking at things, and by authors like Michel Foucault, Judith Butler, Jürgen Habermas, Ulrich Beck... Mind-blowing as the theories are, there's always that uneasy feeling of doubt: What if the theories are all guessworks? How are their validity assessed? How are they used and how are they relevant to the real world?
When he was Chairman of the Social Science Research Council in Britain, Andrew Schonfield wrote:
>"In the social sciences it is rarely possible to pose questions and provide answers in the manner of some of the natural sciences, and it is a refusal to recognize this that has often led us up the wrong path. It is the nature of most of our work that it tends to produce useful ideas and an increasingly firm factual base, rather than clear-cut answers to major policy questions. We must try to tease out the relationships which have a crucial effect on policy and, in doing so, provide not so much widely applicable generalizations as a sound, informed basis for decision-making and, at the same time, cut down the area of reliance on guesswork and prejudice." (Schonfield, 1971).
I wholeheartedly agree with this quote, but can't seem to find the "increasingly firm factual base" for the theories that I'm interested in. For example, do we have any ways to verify Foucault's claims of how power works, or Judith Butler's claims of the existence of many genders, apart from just following the reasoning in their books? What are their contributions to practice-oriented research, apart from providing a possible interpretation of the social phenomena in question? Do theories ultimately have no bearing on policy making?

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 23 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	You should take care to distinguish philosophers such as [Michel
	Foucault](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michel_Foucault) and [Judith
	Butler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Judith_Butler) from social
	scientists.  In principle, theories in social science begin from
	observation, and from past research (herein the importance of
	reviewing scientific literature) unless it is an entirely novel
	observation (one assume these are rare). This is illustrated, for
	instance, by [the famous anecdote about the apple falling on Newton's
	head](https://www.history.com/news/did-an-apple-really-fall-on-isaac-
	newtons-head),  >There’s no evidence to suggest the fruit actually
	landed on his head, but **Newton’s observation caused him to ponder
	why apples always fall straight to the ground** (rather than sideways
	or upward) **and helped inspired him to eventually develop his law of
	universal gravitation.** It is the same thing with, say, the line of
	research inspired by the horrors of World War II and conducted by
	researchers asking themselves how whatever happened in Nazi Germany
	could have happened. I am referring here to research done by
	[Milgram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milgram_experiment),
	[Asch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asch_conformity_experiments),
	etc.  These also provide an answer to how hypotheses tested, and how
	then theories are built: by doing research. In the case of scholars
	such as Newton, Milgram or Asch, experiments are the classic example.
	But there exists both quantitative research and qualitative research,
	and different kinds of evidence. Different approaches are valuable to
	better understand our world. ([See here](https://www.reddit.com/r/Ask
	SocialScience/comments/g58654/stupid_question_arent_most_psych_studie
	s/fo3zblq/) for a brief comment of mine about the notion of gold
	standards and Randomized Control Trials.) Methodologically speaking,
	you need to have a research question, formulate hypotheses, [conceptu
	alize](https://scientificinquiryinsocialwork.pressbooks.com/chapter/9
	-2-conceptualization/), [operationalize](https://scientificinquiryins
	ocialwork.pressbooks.com/chapter/9-3-operationalization/), and so
	forth. This is a rough sketch: the methodology will vary depending on
	whether you intend to conduct quantitative, qualitative or mixed-
	methods research, and what are your objectives (exploratory research,
	descriptive research, explanatory research...).  Broadly speaking, in
	regard to insights provided by scholars such as Foucault or Butler,
	the same applies: you have to figure out the research question,
	define the concepts, and find a way to collect the relevant data to
	answer your question. That is what social scientists (are supposed
	to) do. --- To illustrate, regarding gender, I will quote [an excerpt
	of a conversation I had in another subreddit recently](https://www.re
	ddit.com/r/badscience/comments/gp0gcx/biology_is_identity/frl9czm/)
	(for information, I have been using [this
	definition](https://dictionary.apa.org/gender) for that
	conversation): >The "correctness" of statements regarding the number
	of genders in the USA, and their content, would then (having
	conceptualized) depend on what relevant evidence has been collected
	and is available, i.e. is there evidence in the USA of there being
	another gender besides masculine and feminine?  >For instance, if we
	ask questions to Americans, study their cultural production, (e.g.
	books, movies, etc.), analyze their discourse, and so forth, do we
	find examples of a third set of behaviors and traits being perceived
	as forming a gender that is not masculine or feminine, and examples
	of people being categorized according to this third gender due to
	being perceived as embodying this set? >(Keep in mind that science
	does not produce definite answers, but tentative and provisional
	answers. Depending on how we sample and what materials we analyze, we
	may, for example, ignore the existence of [two-
	spirit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-spirit) among North
	American indigenous tribes. A binary answer might be correct for
	those who are not members of these tribes, and if we analyze
	documents which are not produced by these tribes, but incorrect if we
	include them.) Researchers have collected evidence to argue that
	there exist cultures with concepts of gender which are not strictly
	"masculine" and "feminine", see for instance [this
	map](https://www.pbs.org/independentlens/content/two-spirits_map-
	html/). --- Regarding policy-making, the answer to your question
	depends on the government. Some countries have expert-informed policy
	processes, other not as much. [See for instance Michael Tonry in
	regard to the determinants of penal
	policies:](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/full/10.1086/518582)
	>**Countries in which experts and professionals play major roles in
	policy making, such as most of those in western and northern
	Europe**, are less likely to adopt highly punitive policies in
	general or during waves of emotional reaction to a horrible incident,
	than countries in which expert and professional voices have become
	less influential. According to Tonry, in regard to criminal and penal
	policies, expert and professional opinions tend to have less weight
	in countries such as England and the USA because of differences in
	culture and traditions concerning politics (other factors
	predominate).

		comment score: 2 | u/ensbana (OP)
		I'm still reading your answer, other people's answers and other
		related content, but here are two more questions that result from my
		reading so far: 1. You said "Different approaches are valuable to
		better understand our world". What does it mean here to "understand
		our world"? Certainly we can't have the sort of understanding that
		exists in the natural sciences: for example, formula that gives the
		work required to move a particle from point A to point B should
		accurately predict the result of that experiment, regardless of
		whether the experiment is carried out in Spain or China (with other
		external factors taken into account and subtracted from the
		equations of course). (I do recognize that at the atomic level, the
		particle's behavior is stochastic rather than deterministic, yet the
		latter view is still useful in analyzing many phenomena at the
		everyday life scale, and we can safely generalize the formula to
		those situations, or at least to build internally coherent
		scientific theory based on that view). But since concepts and
		definitions in social sciences don't have the invariant properties
		that those in the natural sciences possess, is there any chance for
		social science theories to have some sort of generality property?
		Or, if we strip off the "external factors" in social science
		experiments like we do with natural science experiments, is there
		anything of value remain? 2. In case of theorists like Foucault or
		Butler, do they conduct experiments themselves to arrive at the
		theories? I feel like calling them philosophers doesn't adequately
		justify their methods, since their subject matters, after all,
		concern entities in the real world.

			comment score: 7 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			>What does it mean here to "understand our world"? For instance,
			culture may be a social construction, but it still *exists*. You
			can study a culture (assuming conceptualization), catalogue its
			characteristics, and that contributes to understanding an element
			of our world, or more precisely an element of our social reality
			(which, like social construction, exists and which is part of our
			world together with physical reality).  > regardless of whether the
			experiment is carried out in Spain or China (with other external
			factors taken into account and subtracted from the equations of
			course). But that sentence between paragraphs is also true for
			equations produced by social scientific research. For instance, I
			assume we both agree that gravity is a natural scientific concept
			(specifically, it pertains to physics). However, gravity is not the
			same on Earth (context A) and on the Moon (context B) [because the
			Moon is smaller and has less mass than
			Earth](https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/z8wx6sg/revision/3).
			(However, [even on Earth, gravity is not the same
			everywhere](https://spaceplace.nasa.gov/what-is-gravity/en/).)
			Therefore, if we do not take this into account, we will not
			correctly predict how fast a ball will fall if we let it go on
			Earth versus on the Moon. ([And this is a simplification which does
			not account for many other factors, both relating to the object
			falling, and the
			environment](https://www.khanacademy.org/science/ap-physics-1/ap-
			centripetal-force-and-gravitation/newtons-law-of-gravitation-
			ap/v/would-a-brick-or-feather-fall-faster).) This is not
			fundamentally different from the fact that human behavior may vary
			according to other characteristics related to their environment.
			Fundamentally, if we want to establish [the probability that
			someone will pick up
			litter](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/1990-30919-001) (this is our
			"how fast something will fall"), we have to consider how dirty the
			context is (this is our "size") and whether the individual has been
			or has not been confronted with anti-littering norms (this is our
			"mass"). Together, these elements produce the "force" exerted on
			the person, compelling them to pick up the trash on the ground (as
			long as they do not crumple to the ground because of gravity). In
			sum, a person is likelier to pick up litter in context A
			(relatively clean place with anti-littering messages) than in
			context B (relatively dirty place with no anti-littering message).
			If we do not take these factors into account in our equation, our
			prediction will be worse rather than better. --- >In case of
			theorists like Foucault or Butler, do they conduct experiments
			themselves to arrive at the theories? It is not prerequisite for
			philosophers to conduct scientific experiments ([which I remind you
			is one way but not the only way to gather scientific
			knowledge](https://theconversation.com/in-defence-of-observational-
			science-randomised-experiments-arent-the-only-way-to-the-
			truth-49807)), if that is what you have in mind. Philosophers might
			collect other kinds of information, and conduct other sorts of
			experiments, but in different manners for different purposes
			(putting aside philosophers who are *also* scientists or vice-
			versa). In any case, in the specific case of Foucault and Butler, I
			am not aware of them conducting "experiments". >I feel like calling
			them philosophers doesn't adequately justify their methods, since
			their subject matters, after all, concern entities in the real
			world. It does, actually. There is a reason why we distinguish
			philosophy from science (the former which is part of
			[Humanities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humanities), not Social
			Sciences). They have different purposes and methodologies, even if
			there may be some overlap. For instance, both philosophers and
			qualitative researchers may analyze texts, but they will do so in
			different manners for different purposes. Foucault, so-called
			antihistorian seeking to write a "[history of the present](https://
			journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1462474514541711)", may have
			produced work that appears like an attempt at historiology, [but
			that was arguably not his true
			intention.](https://www.jstor.org/stable/2709615) Although many
			topics for social scientific research may be inspired by philosophy
			- because philosophers also ask themselves questions about humans
			and societies - scientists have to translate these into their own
			realm. (And not all philosophical questions are of interest to
			scientists or can be tackled by science, such as questions
			regarding the divine.)  --- To provide you another illustration,
			take
			[utilitarianism](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/utilitarianism-
			history/), which is a well-known philosophical concept,
			specifically an ethical theory. Ethics is not the domain of
			science, in the sense that science cannot determine whether an
			action is "Good" or "Bad". However, a scientist may very well
			research how many people consider themselves utilitarians, how
			likely it is for people to adopt utilitarianism in a given a
			scenario, etc. The [trolley
			problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trolley_problem) is a famous
			*thought* experiment in ethics; > There is a runaway trolley
			barreling down the railway tracks. Ahead, on the tracks, there are
			five people tied up and unable to move. The trolley is headed
			straight for them. You are standing some distance off in the train
			yard, next to a lever. If you pull this lever, the trolley will
			switch to a different set of tracks. However, you notice that there
			is one person on the side track. You have two options: >1. Do
			nothing and allow the trolley to kill the five people on the main
			track. >1. Pull the lever, diverting the trolley onto the side
			track where it will kill one person. >Which is the **more ethical
			option**? Or, more simply: What is the **right thing to do**? The
			questions in bold are philosophical questions, not scientific
			questions. However, a scientist may want to answer one of the
			questions I exemplified earlier. For their study, they may
			conceptualize "utilitarianism" as applying the greatest happiness
			principle (conceptualization). For operationalization, they will
			use the choice as the indicator. Those who choose to pull the lever
			and kill one person are utilitarians, those who do not are not
			(operationalization). They take a sample, propose the two
			scenarios, etc. That's a scientific study. It may conclude on the
			likelihood of people being utilitarian, but not whether it is
			fundamentally right or wrong. Other scientific studies include, for
			instance, [investigating the relationship between moral judgments
			and brain activity](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/293/5537
			/2105.abstract), or [whether it is feasible to produce "happiness
			of a great number of people" and whether the "promotion of
			happiness go at the cost of other values"](https://link.springer.co
			m/article/10.1007/s10902-010-9204-z). Again, these sorts of studies
			do not attempt to answer whether, philosophically, utilitarianism
			is the ethical theory humans *should* apply, or whether happiness
			of a great number of people is *good*.

				comment score: 2 | u/Bukowsky123
				Beautiful elaboration, thank you!

					comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
					Glad to hear that; my pleasure :)

	comment score: 11 | u/thechiefmaster
	Despite findings that comprehensive sex ed reduced unplanned
	pregnancies (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3194801/)
	policy makers haven’t implemented this widely in the U.S.  (accurate
	information isn’t even legally required in several states).  Perhaps
	I’m jaded but I don’t believe policy is frequently based on findings.

		comment score: 1 | u/ensbana (OP)
		That's a good point. I've just edited my question to reflect what I
		want to ask more accurately.

	comment score: 2 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/ensbana (OP)
		I'd like to delve deeper into the subject sometimes. Is there a good
		way or good supplementary materials to help with tackling the book?

			comment score: 2 | u/Klumber
			There is a lot of literature around Luhn’s original premises - the
			joy of philosophy :) look the book up in Google Scholar and look at
			‘as cited in’ - then look at which of those are cited most often.
			As always, wiki is a great place to start as well - look for the
			piece on paradigms for example.

			comment score: 1 | u/Klumber
			[](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradigm)

-----------------------------------------

post score: 54 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 54 comments | 2019-11-28 | https://redd.it/e330r6
POST TITLE: What is the best way to deal with activists who misuse or misrepresent statistics?
[deleted]

	comment score: 32 | u/None
	Representing just myself here, but I like it when the person I’m
	talking to shows a genuine interest in an area of research. If
	someone corrects me by saying “you know I actually saw a related
	study from blah that said the long term effects weren’t as dramatic
	as they originally appeared” then I feel like I’m talking to someone
	who actually cares. Vs the person who corrects me with “um, those
	numbers are wrong. Let me tell you how statistics work”

		comment score: 6 | u/cateml
		Absolutely.       People misuse research conclusions and data all
		the time when talking about all sorts of things. I'm sure I'm guilty
		of it as well. Sometimes its people I'm talking to 'on my side'
		(eugh...) and really the right thing to do is to still point it out,
		even if you agree with the more general point.          As you say,
		it' s about tact and how you do it.       I like to say along the
		lines of what you say "Oh yeah, I heard about that, its super
		interesting though, I actually read another paper/thing/criticism
		that said that....". Sometimes I'm kind of vague about where exactly
		the criticism of what they said comes from (ie. its just me knowing
		they read it totally wrong, but I'm vague about whether its me
		saying that or someone else), just because people tend to take that
		better.            The trick I've found is to just always do it with
		a "Isn't what we're talking about fascinating? Its nice to talk to
		someone about it! Let's share what we know..." demeanour rather than
		a "I'm right, you're wrong *and* you can't read research properly."
		demeanour.         It's difficult to disagree, particularly in the
		current political climate, and I find that when you speak as
		neutrally and respectfully as possible (which is easier about data
		than about opinions) that people are kind of disarmed by it and more
		likely to meet you on a level rather than get pissy and shout you
		down.

	comment score: 22 | u/JustWhatAmI
	>If I see activists propagating untrue information Can you go into
	more detail about what these situations looks like?

		comment score: -8 | u/blackberrydoughnuts
		Here's some more info: https://slatestarcodex.com/2014/02/17/lies-
		damned-lies-and-social-media-part-5-of-%E2%88%9E/

			comment score: 12 | u/JustWhatAmI
			Why don't you tell me about a time that you personally had to deal
			with a situation like the one you describe

			comment score: 12 | u/ninjette847
			Isn't that website pretty biased in favor of young men?  It's not
			as bad as some websites but I wouldn't call it objective in their
			interpretations of research or what they write about.

				comment score: -2 | u/blackberrydoughnuts
				No, it's not biased at all - I'm not sure what you mean by that as
				I don't see this as a men vs women issue. The linked post is about
				specific statistical errors that get repeated - do you find
				something wrong with the analysis?

			comment score: 4 | u/StabWhale
			This article is indeed a great example of activists propogating
			untrue information.  Or perhaps, more likely, you meant that this
			article proved that *other* activists propogate untrue information,
			which in that case is damn ironic. Of course not everything is
			untrue, kind of like not everything is untrue in the single article
			that they critique. Some vital things the article fails at: - take
			into account that a large percentage of false accusations do not
			have a victim - saying something about there being a high incentive
			for rape victims to report rape and that police and everyone are
			always supportive. I mean wtf are they smoking? - unfounded =/=
			false - knowing the rather damning critique of the very few studies
			who find 20-90% of reports to be false. Fucking do your research
			instead of "I think it had something to do with ideology" (it
			doesn't).

			comment score: -10 | u/TriceratopsWrex
			I've pointed out that men are more likely to be falsely accused
			than women are killed by a current or former partner several times,
			only to get the same negative reaction.

				comment score: 14 | u/NorthrnSwede
				Its laughable that you think being murdered is comparable to being
				accused of a crime. Almost as though you find women's lives to be
				of less value or something.

					comment score: 2 | u/blackberrydoughnuts
					Men are also more likely to be murdered.

						comment score: 3 | u/NorthrnSwede
						By men.

							comment score: 1 | u/blackberrydoughnuts
							But they're just as dead.

								comment score: 2 | u/NorthrnSwede
								What does that have to do with propagating untrue information?
								Both men and women are harmed by the patriarchy. But only men,
								ALL men, benefit from it.

					comment score: -3 | u/TriceratopsWrex
					Not at all. Everyone's life is equal to everyone else's.  The
					point is that one happens more often, and fear of it happening is
					seen as laughable and not worth worrying about. The one that
					happens less often is seen as an epidemic and a serious societal
					issue, and fear of it happening is seen as not only rational, but
					necessary. It makes no sense whatsoever. I'm not comparing the
					outcomes of the two situations. Obviously being murdered is worse
					than being falsely accused of rape. The rates of prevalence are
					the point. It's almost as if you and those who downvoted me are
					intentionally missing the point.

						comment score: 9 | u/NorthrnSwede
						>The one that happens less often is seen as an epidemic and a
						serious societal issue The problem is that you actually have no
						clue what women are afraid of. We aren't just afraid of death at
						the hands of violent men. We're afraid of assault and rape and
						stalking, and harassment and abuse and coercive control and so
						on. Wake up. The only reason anyone even cares about rape
						accusations is because rape is fucking awful. You seem to forget
						that entirely. Regardless of your gender, you are much much more
						likely to be raped or sexually abused than to be falsely
						accused. Which side are you on here?

							comment score: 1 | u/TriceratopsWrex
							There is no side. Both are awful, if not equally so. I've been
							raped twice in my life, I have firsthand experience with how
							awful it is. Caring about something doesn't preclude caring
							about something else.

								comment score: 2 | u/NorthrnSwede
								Equally so? Lmfao. Objectively you are wrong. Many, many
								rapists and non-rapist who are accused go on to lead competely
								normal lives without trauma. Rape always causes trauma. Often
								times, it echos through generations. This is well documented.
								YOU are the one who chose to compare these things. Then I
								pointed out how ridiculous the comparison was that YOU made.
								Now you think I need the lecture about how there's no contest.
								Lol.

						comment score: 5 | u/StabWhale
						>I'm not comparing the outcomes of the two situations. Yes you
						are, by comparing how "serious" each issue is taken overall.
						It's a fact that people take into consideration outcomes when
						looking at what they care about the most, and you just ignore
						(intentionally or not) that they do by comparing the two issues
						directly and how seriously they are viewed. I get the point
						you're trying to make (though I don't really agree with it for
						other reasons), but your choice of comparisons and how you do it
						doesn't help.

						comment score: 4 | u/GuybrushTheThird
						No, we all get your point. We just think you're callous.

				comment score: -1 | u/blackberrydoughnuts
				Yes, and men are also more likely to be the victims of violent
				attacks. Sorry you're getting negative reactions and downvotes
				here - not all feminists are like that.

	comment score: 17 | u/None
	[deleted]

		comment score: -17 | u/blackberrydoughnuts
		No, he's talking about feminists. Why would you assume he's talking
		about MRAs? Here's more info:
		https://slatestarcodex.com/2014/02/17/lies-damned-lies-and-social-
		media-part-5-of-%E2%88%9E/

			comment score: 7 | u/None
			[deleted]

				comment score: 1 | u/mewacketergi
				Said the feminist strawmanning the male advocates.

					comment score: 3 | u/cromulent_weasel
					I'm sorry, what straw men do you think I am advocating?

						comment score: 0 | u/mewacketergi
						That it's the "Other" of the gender wars who is guilty of
						misrepresentation of statistics, while your side is innocent of
						it, while it's readily obvious that this tactic is healthily
						indulged in by both sides.

							comment score: 3 | u/cromulent_weasel
							> your side  This is news to me, since I'm on both sides.  So
							which side am I lying about?

								comment score: 0 | u/mewacketergi
								>This is news to me, since I'm on both sides. That doesn't
								make a lot of sense to me.

									comment score: 2 | u/cromulent_weasel
									I think it's possible to be a feminist AND an advocate for
									men.

										comment score: 1 | u/mewacketergi
										Well, as an example of Karen DeCrow demonstrates, it is
										certainly possible, but it seems infinitesimally rare.

									comment score: 2 | u/cromulent_weasel
									This is surreal to me because I also had a reddit chat with a
									feminist who didn't think that there was ANY overlap between
									misandry and feminism.  It seems like you think ALL feminists
									are misandrists? My personal opinion is that there are
									feminists who are misandrists, but they are a distinct
									minority.  And there are feminists who are also male
									advocates, and they are also a minority of feminists as well.

										comment score: 1 | u/mewacketergi
										No, I don't believe what you say. (Your quickness in jumping
										to these caricaturistic conclusions was what lead me to
										bring up strawmanning before.) However, the overlap between
										misandrists and feminists seems noticeable enough that it
										seems more than purely coincidental, probably larger than an
										overlap between misandrists and the general human
										population, and I see a possibly that there is something in
										their theories that breeds resentment, hostility, and
										otherwise encourages this sort of prejudiced thinking in
										said theories' adherents.

	comment score: 13 | u/unic0de000
	This isn't an answer to your question, but I think it's something to
	keep in mind when deciding the answer. I think your approach in the
	face of incorrect statistical arguments needs to be informed by some
	kind of weighing of consequential factors. Who and how many are the
	audience, what is their investment in having the facts right, what
	are the consequences to them or others of having it wrong? How do you
	gain or lose in the interaction, socially/interpersonally? How do
	they? Everyone in most every field of academic study is prone to
	overuniversalizing their own priorities and fields of expertise, and
	so we often see people from all sorts of disciplines who are on
	crusades to *set the public straight* on some commonly-misconceived
	concept they know a lot about. While those crusades may have all
	their facts right, they can sometimes come across as pedantic, as
	being motivated by petty priorities, as having not *really thought*
	about whether and why it should matter that someone has these facts
	correct. If you've thought that question through, and if you believe
	that correcting a misconception will have some practical role in
	making the world better, and this is in an area where you have
	expertise and some substantial certainty you're right, then I say go
	ahead and drop that knowledge. Gently.

		comment score: 5 | u/mjbristolian
		I think this is such a great response. I guess the only thing i'd
		add is that all research has limitations. Any work across the human,
		social and behavioural scienenes will never give us universal
		objective truths about the world. As an academic, i  often see
		researcher present 'facts' and tell others they are wrong  even
		though equally rigorous research elsewhere came to completely
		different conclusions. Sometimes findings in a given area are
		inconclusive, and in many of those instances, a single person doing
		one additional study is not enough to put the world to rights, but
		you get plenty of academics that think it is. I mean, this is why we
		write literature reviews that consider vasts amount of literature
		rather than just one study that tells us what we want to hear.
		Personally, if I'm challenging someone's work, i challenge it with
		tact, acknowledging that my work also has limitations.  In my
		experience, academics that think they no all the facts are academics
		that are not very reflexive and don't acknowledge the limitations of
		their work/personal bias.   The only time I am perhaps less tactful
		is when its a blatant effort to spread misinformation because i
		think misinformation is currently extremely harmful to so many
		marginalised groups.  Whether such misinformation cones from the
		left or right, I think it is harmful because it discourages critical
		engagement with media and normalises fake news.

		comment score: 2 | u/npd_reflect
		This is a great response.

		comment score: -2 | u/Jaktenba
		> as having not really thought about whether and why it should
		matter that someone has these facts correct Having the facts correct
		ALWAYS matters. There is never a situation in which it is "good" for
		someone to be incorrect. Incorrect information actively harms the
		world. No surprise that a feminist would argue that it's okay to
		lie, after all the ends justify the means, right?

			comment score: 3 | u/unic0de000
			> argue that it's okay to lie This guy who prizes accuracy so
			highly, has paraphrased my argument thus. Amazing.

				comment score: 1 | u/Jaktenba
				I could quote the whole thing if you like, it will say the same
				simply in more words. As I said, there is never an instance in
				which the facts being correct is unimportant. Yet you argue that
				there could be a time, and that you should allow the propagation
				of false information. Maybe "lie" isn't the correct word, since
				many times it is more so a matter of the person parroting what
				they have been told without double-checking it.

					comment score: 1 | u/unic0de000
					> Maybe "lie" isn't the correct word Hang on a sec. If you
					weren't sure it was the correct word, ***why did you use it?***
					Isn't correctness important?

						comment score: 1 | u/Jaktenba
						It is, and a part of being correct is willing to admit when you
						are wrong, however a lie by ignorance is still a lie in the end,
						but people that don't realize they're wrong aren't on the same
						moral ground as someone that intentionally lies.

			comment score: 2 | u/npd_reflect
			I don't think they meant that it's okay to lie.  Just that
			sometimes correcting someone does more harm than good.   Some
			people are stubborn and will dig their heels in when they're wrong.
			Correcting them just makes them feel more strongly that they're
			right.  It's called the Backfire Effect. Sometimes the details are
			trivial.   In the case of *research* - which is what the OP was
			about - the "facts" may not be settled.

				comment score: 2 | u/Jaktenba
				Fair enough, though this will depend on where the discussion is
				taking place. For instance, in an open forum like this, you are
				not necessarily trying to sway your opponent so much as providing
				a counter for third-parties that come across the discussion.

	comment score: 5 | u/raskolnikova
	sometimes engaging with women on women's issues is good, it shows
	that you're actually interested. it just depends on how you do it. I
	personally think it is better than just stepping back and not asking
	questions if you don't "get" something -- when people keep that kind
	of distance from the ideas they subscribe to, their convictions are
	weaker and they can easily become alienated. I've seen a shift in
	these ideas among progressive people I know -- they know that simple
	deference doesn't build strong convictions.  I am a white cis woman.
	a couple years ago I felt the same way as you in some regards, but
	now, just because I have built up relationships of trust, I regularly
	have conversations about trans issues with trans people, about race
	with people of colour -- and I can raise questions to them about
	things they have said. the person needs to trust that you are not
	"sealioning" them, i.e. insincerely asking for more evidence for an
	idea that you will never accept. on the Internet it's hard to have
	that kind of trust.  if there are any women or people of colour in
	your field you could talk to about these misconceptions and how to
	address them, that is where I would start. or if the people making
	these misconceptions are people you know personally, I would say the
	best thing is to speak about it privately, if you have such an
	opportunity -- that way you're not undermining them when they are
	trying to do their advocacy work, and in general that sort of
	conversation is more fluid.

	comment score: 7 | u/None
	If someone in my Facebook, Twitter shares a falsehood, I correct it
	and ask them to take it down. I also try to find the original source
	and correct them and ask to take it down.  If it is published, I
	recommend writing letters to the editor of the publication if
	possible, not patronizing businesses that advertise in the
	publication, and taking screenshots of the story instead of “hate
	sharing / hate reading” posts, etc. Because it just helps their
	numbers.

	comment score: 5 | u/avocado-nightmare
	Before stepping in to correct someone, you should evaluate: 1) What
	is the context of the misinformation? Is this an casual conversation,
	a formal work context, an online forum? 2) What is your relationship
	to the person? Relational proximity and trust tend to positively
	influence the likelihood a correction will be accepted. 3) Are you
	referring to Activists (self-identified) or Activists-- people
	affiliated with organizational infrastructure and media teams? 4) Is
	the information authentic, if not perfectly accurate? This means:
	does it reflect or encapsulate a broader trend in a way that
	authentically captures the impact in a way people can understand,
	even though it is not technically factual in it's minutiae? 5) How
	will your correction be perceived? Will it build or hurt your
	credibility and relationship with the individual(s) you are
	correcting? 6) What is your motivation for the correction in that
	particular moment? 7) Is the delivery of your correction helpful? Is
	it kind? It's easy to brand yourself as someone who "cares about
	objectivity" and go around righting all the worlds misconceptions--
	what's less easy is rebuilding relationships after you are branded an
	exhausting pedant. What isn't in your favor is the weight of
	stereotypes re: Authoritative White Man Expert Who Explains to
	Everyone That They are Wrong. No one likes that guy; it doesn't
	matter how smart OR right he is, he's terrible to be around. Which is
	why in your other thread I counseled using other strategies and
	learning to read a room, read relationships, and consider whether or
	not a given situation is really Appropriate for the type of
	correction that was suggested (citing journal articles or studies).
	What I wish I had clarified in that earlier thread is that while that
	\*is\* one way to address misinformation-- it isn't the only way, and
	it isn't always the best way. There are a lot of factors involved in
	why misinformation spreads, and while really pernicious
	misinformation shouldn't go unchallenged-- it's important to be able
	to read the audience and relationship and choose the best way to
	respond-- which is, sometimes, to simply not respond.  Even as an
	"expert" it will be outside your personal capacity and responsibility
	to respond to every misconception and bit of misinformation you
	encounter. It will be unproductive and exhausting for you, a single
	individual, to try and take that on. It just isn't your role in life
	to do that-- and that's okay. You have to learn to reconcile with
	that fact and choose your battles and decide where it \*is\*
	meaningful and impactful to address those issues.  No one else can do
	that for you or tell you exactly how to do it, you will have to learn
	by practicing.

		comment score: 1 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 1 | u/npd_reflect
			2.9 vs 2.8

		comment score: 0 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 4 | u/oracular_duck
			Since all you seem to want to do here is snipe about the community
			and our users, you’re done. Frankly, I’m surprised you lasted this
			long.

	comment score: 2 | u/MissAnthropoid
	I just fact check everybody and politely share my findings. To quote
	Gerald Kutney's approach to battling climate denial on Twitter, "be
	accurate, civil and factual". The more you go on and on about it, or
	bring in irrelevant personal details and commentary, the less
	effective your criticism will be.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 4 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 2 | u/sealedIndictments
			The harm in rape is that it forces victims to hide the truth from
			themselves. People, men and women, who are raped rationalize it or
			hide from it as an ego defense mechanism. Being a victim is not
			acceptable in our society. Some victims, when they see other
			victims call out a rape, it’s like a personal attack on their
			beliefs, and they attack the character of the person coming
			forward. I suspect this is because they battle their own
			rationalizations due to their own traumas. These rationalizations
			lead to an unconscious life. They are often not extremely sturdy,
			and need alcohol or drug use to prop up. Rapists rationalize.
			Victims rationalize. Observers rationalize. Nobody can admit to
			being party to it. A rape occurs when one party did not make a free
			deciding. I believe some things are morally a rape even if legally
			it does not cross the line. But there are some rapes that are not
			equivocal legally or otherwise, and it isn’t up to the victim to
			say whether or not it occurred. Consequences to the rapist should
			not ever be construed to be the fault of the victim. That’s why
			anybody who observes a rape needs to speak up to protect us all
			from predators. It is not actually a kindness to enable the victim
			to rationalize the rape away.

	comment score: 1 | u/MilanesaConFritas
	I think it depends on context, when I had corrected misinformation in
	a way that still validates the point of the other person, then I had
	no issue whatsoever. When your information conflicts with the other
	person personal world view is almost imposible to not get some
	resistance. Specially if that part is very close to their personal
	identity, because then it would feel to them as a personal attack.
	You can also start spreading information you feel gets misinterpreted
	as a way to fight misinformation without actively fighting against an
	individual. People are much more likely to integrate new information,
	or correct assumptions if presented in a passive way, and not an
	active conversation. I'm curious about what information you feel gets
	misconstructed, or what lies you feel have gain too much traction ?

-----------------------------------------

post score: 39 | r/AskSocialScience | u/rhymehouse | 4 comments | 2019-12-27 | https://redd.it/egf2du
POST TITLE: Are there any sources that go into detail about involuntary minorities and their integration into general society.
According to Nigerian anthropologist [John Ogbu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Ogbu), there are nine types of ethnic groups within the demography of a society that sometimes overlap.
Demographic Majority - The ethnic group that makes up over 51% of the region or state or country or jurisdiction's population. Generally the demographic majority forms the basic framework of the society when it comes to culture or economics or other areas. All nation-states are countries with a demographic majority.
Voluntary Minorities - These are ethnic minorities that willingly came to another country or area and went through an official immigration process. There are generally filters in place to both make sure the immigrant is a good fit for the country and only a certain type of person would be willing to leave their homeland and desire to become an ethnic minority somewhere else. Voluntary minorities are often model minorities and generally exhibit the [immigrant paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immigrant_paradox) where first generation immigrants outperform the native born population when it comes to health, education, low crime, etc.
Involuntary Minorities - These are ethnic minorities that were forced to become part of the country they currently inhabit. This could either be due to the fact that they were militarily conquered, they were forcefully migrated, or they were enslaved and brought to the nation. Involuntary minorities tend to be opposed to the dominant culture due to past resentment and stigmatization of their native culture and language/dialect and behaviors. This leads to involuntary minorities having far lower income and educational attainment than other groups. In the USA, involuntary minorities who are seen as being too assimilated into the dominant ethnicity are disparaged as "acting White". A good example of an involuntary minority would be Aboriginal Australians.
Refugees - Refugees are people who come to a country not because they wanted to join the nation-state but because they had to leave their home nation for safety. This could be either be due to active warfare and violence in their country or origin or religious, ethnic, or economic persecution. Refugees generally try to seek asylum in the nearest safe country that will take them. Refugees often return to their country of origin if it becomes safe again. If refugees do not decide to return to their country of origin, they generally exist as a non-integrated underclass. A good example of a refugee group would be Syrians in Turkey.
Elite (or Dominant) Minorities - These are ethnic groups that have massive amounts of political, socioeconomic, and cultural control in a country despite the fact that they are a minority. A classic example are White South Africans during the apartheid days. Elite minorities are extremely over-represented and almost exclusively reside in the upper echelons of society. Dominant minorities should be not confused with model minorities.
Model Minorities - A model minority ethnic group is an ethnicity that is perceived as being more educationally or occupationally or behaviorally successful than the typical person in the country. A good example of model minorities would be Indian Americans in the USA. The difference between an model minority and a dominant minority is that the demographic majority still has most of the political and economic control in a society with model minorities, but that is not the case with dominant or elite minorities. A model minority might also still face structural or institutional prejudice and discrimination in their country despite their socioeconomic success while a dominant minority cannot face institutional racism because they control the institutions.
Underclass Minorities - Just like how model minorities are more successful than the socioeconomic average of a country, underclass minorities are less successful than the socioeconomic average of a country. This could be due to a variety of factors.
Subservient Majority - This is the inverse of a dominant minority. This is a demographic majority that does not have representative political and economic influence in their country due to being ruled by a dominant minority.

There are a lot of studies comparing the statistical outcomes and opinions and behaviors of African-Americans compared to Asian-Americans or Mexican-Americans or White-Americans  but I do not think that is a good comparison due to the vastly different history African-Americans have to those other groups. I think African-Americans would be most comparable other involuntary minorities within the USA like Native Americans and Native Hawaiians and Native Alaskans and Puerto Ricans and Samoans and Guamanians, etc.

are there any research or thesis papers that covers the assimilation or segregation of various involuntary minorities or even just indigenous groups in several countries like Canada, Australia, Brazil, Mexico, New Zealand, Taiwan, and Russia for instance?

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 4 | u/3mpty_5h1p
	Found this excerpt online: "...Preliminary findings suggest that age
	(younger), sex (male), and length of exposure to the predominant
	culture (Bumam, Telles, Kamo, & Hough, 1987) as well as cultural
	awareness and ethnic loyalty (Padilla, 1985) are critical factors in
	the acculturation process...." If this sounds like what you're
	looking for, you might consider if additional details from the
	encyclopedia source can take you in the direction you want:
	International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences 2001,
	Pages 9894-9898 "Minorities", Layton-Henry, University of Warwick,
	Coventry, UK Available online 2 November 2002.

		comment score: 1 | u/rhymehouse (OP)
		I’m not sure if this is what I an looking for. This seems to be
		talking about ethnic minorities in general and seems to be geared
		towards immigrants. I am specifically talking about ethnic
		minorities who by and large are not immigrants.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 36 | r/AskFeminists | u/alpinesky8 | 22 comments | 2020-04-29 | https://redd.it/ga5x8r
POST TITLE: How to educate mother who has bias against women
Hello reddit! So I’m in a bit of a pickle. I’ve been having discussions with my mother about feminism and how we live in a patriarchal society  (I’m female) and she is just not getting it. She says that it’s a shame ‘boys leave school worried that they will be rapists’ and that ‘girls leave school thinking they can wear whatever they want with no consequences’ 
I know what I should do is approach this gently but I just blow up whenever she says this kind of thing - she blames women for problems that men cause (like sexual assault!) and I just have no idea how to get her on my side! Please help!

	comment score: 23 | u/puss_parkerswidow
	I'd try just asking questions to get her to say more about why she
	feels this way. It will probably be very frustrating, but that's
	probably the only way to have any kind of breakthrough here.  Do you
	have any brothers? I have one and my mom is very quick to jump in and
	"protect" him in these conversations, even though he's 54 years old
	and he didn't do anything to anyone that we're even remotely
	discussing.  She just always defaults to defending her first born,
	and all "boys" because of her bond with him.  She tends to view me as
	being an extension of herself and make a lot of assumptions about me
	feeling the same as her about stuff because we're both women. She's
	also 75 years old, conservative, sheltered, and still married to my
	nearly 80 year old dad, so everything turned out the way she'd
	planned it back in the 1950s. For example, she gave me some of my
	baby shoes recently and told me how she's seen them in a store when
	she was a teenager and bought them for her hope chest before she'd
	ever even laid eyes on my dad.  She learned this from my grandma who
	definitely favored her son over her daughters- made the girls cook
	and clean like maids while spoiling my uncle.  It's super hard to
	undo any of that, but asking questions  makes my mom think a little
	harder about some of it.

		comment score: 5 | u/DomesticIvy
		TL:DR I agree with you. being kind, understanding and direct with
		questions will garner the best results for changing behaviour and
		beliefs.  I fully agree with this sentiment. My Mother in Law is a
		nice enough person but has been heavily manipulated in to believing
		a very right wing/hard core Christian culture and all the
		patriarchal bull shit that goes with it.  It goes so strongly
		against what I believe as I was brought up in a matriarchal house (4
		women and my dad) with strong feminist values.  First thing I did
		was stand up for myself as politely as possible when ever the
		occasion arose. I’m a qualified plumber and i would bring this up
		when ever ideas around men being better at
		DIY/engineering(everything) etc. were brought up.  I would never shy
		away from doing this in public.  I would always support women around
		me whenever they were being subjected to the negative side of
		patriarchal bull shit.  And every time my MIL pushed one of her
		opinions on my behaviour, her sons behaviour (a nonchalantly camp
		bisexual man [she didn’t know this at the time]) or any one else, I
		would ask her casually and calmly “ooo why is that?” “That’s an
		interesting perspective, why do you believe that?” “That’s funny, I
		wonder if that person feels like that or ...?”  Asking hard
		questions in a kind, non judgmental way is so important. Be
		genuinely interested in the answer too. Although I had to work
		really really hard to force myself a to fully understand her
		perspective.  She was brought up as the last girl in a line of 7
		children. They were not wealthy. They did not have an easy
		childhood. She married in to hard core Christian values and took it
		on board so fully as a way to escape the poverty and trauma she grew
		up with (husband family are middle class). She provides financially
		for her whole family. Her older male sibling raped her sisters, her
		older sister has been heavily alcohol dependant since early teens.
		My MIL has done the best she could with what she had. Understanding
		her past really helped me to hold the judgement and relate to her in
		a way that helped us both to understand feminism better.  She has
		come such a long way and has done so much for her own self
		development since i first knew her. She is a very different woman
		from the one I met 13 years ago. She holds much more value in
		herself and other women. She is far less quick to judge and has a
		greater capacity for critical thinking. I started this journey of
		patience, kindness, understanding and self worth 6 years ago. I
		don’t know how much of an impact my behaviour has had on her mind
		set but I know for a fact that nothing would have changed if I had
		continued to get angry and frustrated at her opinions and actions.
		This has also dramatically changed the way I behave as a radical
		feminist.  Sometimes it was hard, sometimes I had to just leave the
		room. But, bit by bit, day by day, she started to change. She is now
		teaching her husband to be less of a prick.  Deep breaths, a well
		stocked mental library of facts, patience and a lot of love.  Good
		Luck OP

			comment score: 2 | u/alpinesky8 (OP)
			That is such a lovely answer, thank you! I will bear this in
			mind... and will take heed from your patience and perseverance - it
			is truly inspirational!

		comment score: 3 | u/ordasan
		Oh wow it’s like how I would describe my mother. Same generation,
		originating from a now ex-communist country. Excellent idea to just
		keep asking questions, even if frustrating. I’ll try that when I get
		a chance.

		comment score: 2 | u/alpinesky8 (OP)
		Yeah, I have a younger brother and she seems more worried about him
		being labelled a rapist than the possibility of me being assaulted.
		But thats a good point, I should definitely ask more questions and
		remain calm in the situation in order to prise out her views. I just
		dont know where to start with the questions and which ones to ask to
		get her to open up more.

	comment score: 12 | u/balanchinedream
	This art exhibit might be a good place to start, “What Were You
	Wearing?”: https://www.forestry.oregonstate.edu/wwyw/homepage And
	this article about a similar show:
	www.chicagotribune.com/columns/heidi-stevens/ct-life-stevens-
	thursday-ku-what-were-you-wearing-0914-story.html%3FoutputType%3Damp
	Ask your mom if someone attacked you in the street, would she help
	you seek justice, or take the path of least resistance and question
	*your* choices? At the end of this hypothetical day, none of your
	choices would have been “violate another human”. I hope this can help
	open dialogue between you and your mom.

		comment score: 2 | u/alpinesky8 (OP)
		Thats a fantastic idea - I lack facts so when on the spot with her,
		my answers are not backed by objectivity which doesnt help the
		situation - as thats what she does too. So this is a great starting
		point, thanks so much!

	comment score: 5 | u/vanillazuella
	I think the word "educate" might be the problem. As a coach I've
	realized that if I understand where my mentee is coming from, it's
	easier for me to put myself in their shoes.  Perhaps it might be
	better to ask where her opinions come from. Also asking her questions
	about it might make you understand her perspective better.  Asking
	questions like these usually cause reconsideration- does she think
	it's OK to police womens clothes? Are men such children mentally that
	they need to be 'protected' from what women wear? Do women in hijabs
	not get raped? What are children wearing when they are raped?  Do
	women not have sexual needs and should we have to be restricted by
	social policing more than men do? Why is that? What in our gender
	makes it so?  Self conversation (her breaking down her own logic and
	attitudes) is the best way to possibly get her to at least think
	differently if not change her mind.

		comment score: 1 | u/alpinesky8 (OP)
		These are amazing questions - thanks so much this will defnitely
		help me in my next conversation with her about this topic!

			comment score: 1 | u/vanillazuella
			Happy to have helped :)

	comment score: 4 | u/MizDiana
	While the other advice here is good, remember that ultimately what
	she believes is her choice. It may or not be possible to find the
	right words to convince her. And you aren't responsible for what she
	thinks. That said, good luck!

		comment score: 2 | u/alpinesky8 (OP)
		Yeah that is true, sometimes you can't and shouldn't 'correct'
		someone (which is perhaps what I am trying to do... rather than let
		her come to a feminist viewpoint organically)

			comment score: 1 | u/MizDiana
			Doesn't mean you can't try. But if she doesn't listen, it's not
			your fault & you shouldn't spend too much time worrying about it.

	comment score: 3 | u/trifangle
	I heard a great explanation for this once. If women can blame other
	women for anything that “caused” their sexual assault, then it can’t
	be random. It can’t happen to them. And that is some how a comforting
	thought for some women.

		comment score: 1 | u/alpinesky8 (OP)
		Yeah I suppose it makes them think they are above it, and cant be
		subject to assault. An interesting point!

	comment score: -2 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 2 | u/KaliTheCat
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct answers to posted questions must come from feminists and
		reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed; you will not be
		warned again.

			comment score: 1 | u/RandomInsaneRedditor
			It was a feminist perspective, I identify as a feminist.

				comment score: 3 | u/KaliTheCat
				Sure, and I'm Marie Antoinette. Nested comments or bust, pal.

					comment score: 1 | u/RandomInsaneRedditor
					Why are you silencing truth-speaking feminist voices when the sub
					is called Ask Feminists?

						comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
						Ugh, fine.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 42 | r/AskSocialScience | u/sammyjamez | 9 comments | 2019-08-07 | https://redd.it/cn5vks
POST TITLE: Why did so many cultures throughout history had a pattern of bias against left-handed people?
The word "sinister" comes from the Latin word "sinistra" meaning "left" and today, that word is synonymous to evil. And apparently throughout history, left handed people are blamed or stigmatised for many things - association with satanism and the occult, association with criminal activity, there is even a scene in the film "The King's Speech" where future King King Philip VI says that he was punished and forced to write with his right hand instead of with his left
Where did this bias come from and why did it persist for so long throughout history and throughout different cultures?

	comment score: 2 | u/None
	[removed]

	comment score: 0 | u/123abc4
	I highly recommend the introduction of [this paper](https://pdfs.sema
	nticscholar.org/8185/b39b1f2124d2ad3ca1513570b7505f5b4c25.pdf)  which
	can lead you to a host of other information! Sorry, I’m struggling to
	choose a paragraph to quote that would answer your question the most!

	comment score: -1 | u/None
	[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 34 | r/AskSocialScience | u/benjaminikuta | 0 comments | 2019-10-06 | https://redd.it/de8yvw
POST TITLE: What checks are in place to ensure that the discretionary powers afforded to police and prosecutors aren't used to further systemic bias, and how effective are they?
[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 29 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 26 comments | 2019-03-26 | https://redd.it/b5se10
POST TITLE: How to argue against "according to —— the definition of sexism is this, so what I said/did can't be sexist" How to explain sexism (and racism)?
[deleted]

	comment score: 22 | u/tigalicious
	[This comic](http://www.robot-hugs.com/definition/) is a fun an
	concise way to shut that kind of thing down, if the conversation is
	online. And the gist of it can be used in person as well.  People who
	insist on using basic definitions are usually not doing so in good
	faith, but if they are then surely they'd be happy to know that the
	issues are being treated seriously enough to develop complex
	definitions and accurately identify examples in the real world!

		comment score: 6 | u/Takin2000
		That was a really interesting read.I have never looked at it from
		this perspective. However, i dont think it is as relevant to the
		argument as it seems.  When people say "this is/is not racist", they
		mean this specific definition in the dictionary.And one thing either
		fits this description and therefore is racist or it isnt.  Whether
		this word encompasses all scales of oppression/is accurate enough
		etc. or not and wether this is a good descriptor for
		discrimination/oppression etc. is irrelevant here.People mean the
		official dictionary definition.And everyone has accepted that the
		dictionaries dictate a words meaning to avoid confusion.Thats why
		everyone thinks this is an objective argument. In my opinion,
		pointing out the lack of nuance in the word and instead using an
		eintirely new word or explaining what you mean manually is a better
		way to refute this argument. What i mean is basically this:Someone
		can be discriminated against, and yet not be the victim of racism,
		if you use the dictionary definition.So what?That doesnt invalidate
		their expirience.  So take your time and explain this and im sure
		you will convince the other side. >People who insist on using basic
		definitions are usually not doing so in good faith Or they simply
		arent as knowledgeable about the topics nuances and academic
		language so they use what they think is the universally agreed
		definition to construct an argument that they think is as objective
		as possible, in good faith?  Im sorry, but i didnt understand your
		thought process here.If you didnt believe that people think
		dictionaries are objectively right and are therefore a valid source
		for an argument, then why did you link that comic?

			comment score: 5 | u/crestamaquina
			But dictionaries *aren't* objectively right. Any regular dictionary
			is just a quick reference guide to the usual and general meaning of
			a word, but nothing more. They also take a long time to record
			meanings and only when they're stable enough, so they can't account
			for changes too often. Words aren't just meanings; they also
			represent actions, beliefs, and ways of acting and being.
			Dictionaries are also written by people who are experts on
			recording word usage, but are decidedly not experts on any other
			subject area and thus can't capture precise meanings or nuances. If
			that's what you want, you can find specialized dictionaries written
			by actual experts, and I'm sure those ones would offer a much
			better definition of sexism or whatever else. I think we *need* to
			make the argument that dictionaries aren't the truth, because
			they're not, so no one should ever use dictionary definitions to
			argue anything at all, especially topics subject to social scrutiny
			and change. Source: am linguist

			comment score: 5 | u/dukeofgonzo
			I think a neologism for the newer usage of racism (prejudice +
			power) would do a lot for furthering that kind of idea.

			comment score: 3 | u/Strange_andunusual
			I think most people know that general dictionaries are a place to
			start understanding basic definitions of words, but by nature tend
			to lack the nuance of how they're really used, colloquialisms, etc.
			At least, I've always understood that to be the case just based on
			observation. Someone who behaves as though the brief, one-sentence
			dictionary definition of a word is the beginning and the end may
			not be engaging in bad faith necessarily, butany are and it's not
			very hard to tell the difference.

			comment score: 2 | u/tigalicious
			But that's not an objective argument at all. If dictionaries were
			objective, they would all be identical. And if they *dictate*
			meanings rather than record brief summaries of meanings, then
			making up a whole new word would be nonsensical until you somehow
			managed to get that new word in a dictionary (or *all* of the
			dictionaries?). As the comic says, dictionaries are a great place
			to start if you're completely ignorant of a word's meaning. But
			clinging to dictionaries as a tool to avoid acknowledging nuance is
			ignorant at best, but often simply a dishonest tactic designed to
			hobble the discussion.

				comment score: 2 | u/Takin2000
				>But that's not an objective argument at all. But my point isnt
				quite that its an objective argument.Im saying that people _think_
				its the most objective source for the meaning of a word.After all,
				OP thought it was an objective source, the person that made the
				argument thought it was an objective source, i thought that and
				the one who made the comic thought that this was a widespread
				belief.  So what i deduced from that is that people will accept
				the dictionaries definition of a word so everyone knows what they
				are talking about when they use certain words and communication
				works better.  I am no linguist and so arent many people so it
				should be obvious that, following this widespread belief,
				everytime someone uses a word, they refer to the dictionaries
				meaning and everyone who hears it thinks of the dictionaries
				definition.  And anything either fits or doesnt fit a definition.
				That part _is_ objective.If i define "watermelon" as "anything
				that is green is a watermelon", then you can objectively say what
				fits _my_ definition or not and therefore for me would or would
				not be a watermelon.It may not make sense to you, but thats how
				_I_ defined the word.  And its the same way that dictionaries work
				(atleast thats the way i understood the comic).They choose what is
				and isnt racist.And if everyone agrees on the dictionaries
				definition of racism, something objectively is or isnt racist.
				Does that mean that people cant be unfairly treated when they dont
				fit this definition?Of course not.But, if everyone accepted that
				the dictionary has an objective definition(again, i think that the
				majority of people believe this and mean the dictionaries
				definition.And i think this is where our disagreement comes from)
				of racism, then this unfair treatment would objectively not be
				"racism".  HOWEVER, that doesnt change the fact that its still
				_unfair treatment_ .Just because its not "racism" doesnt mean it
				is morally okay. Again, im not saying that it _is_ an objective
				source.Im saying many _believe_ it is.And thats why many reference
				it.  >they would all be identical  Arent they identical
				though?Like, here in germany (yes, i am no native english speaker
				but i think that my opinion still matters here) we have a
				dictionary called a "Duden" and its literally referenced anytime
				someone wants to look up an objective definition.Hell, even on
				google its the first result anytime you search for a
				definition.And our teacher for german classes also always has a
				duden on her desk.  Im actually just asking out of interest here.
				>then making up a whole new word would be nonsensical until you
				somehow managed to get that new word in a dictionary (or all of
				the dictionaries?). Well yes, that may be true.But you are not
				forced to use neologisms.As i wrote in my other comment, you can
				still explain what you mean, even if there is no word for it. >As
				the comic says, dictionaries are a great place to start if you're
				completely ignorant of a word's meaning. But clinging to
				dictionaries as a tool to avoid acknowledging nuance is ignorant
				at best, but often simply a dishonest tactic designed to hobble
				the discussion You are assuming people know there are better and
				more nuanced sources, but as i said earlier, im pretty sure many
				people genuinely _dont_ know this.I didnt know this atleast.

					comment score: 2 | u/tigalicious
					Ooh yeah, coming from Germany would give a person a very
					different perspective on language and dictionaries. English isn't
					standardized by a regulatory body in the same way that German is.
					There are lots of different dictionaries, most of whom are just
					trying their best to keep up with the constant evolution of the
					English language. The dictionaries who don't do that are trying
					to dictate the language rather than record it, but, since there's
					no consensus on their authority to do that, they kinda just get
					left behind. I understand that you're trying to say that *people
					think* that dictionaries are objective. But they're not. Not even
					in German, where some people sit down in a room to decide what
					"counts" as "real" German, and everybody else's perspectives are
					left out. Why should we be limited in our language by someone
					else's *incorrect* ideas? And it's fine to not know everything
					already! That's super reasonable. But people who react to new
					information by clinging to a simplified version that they already
					know are acting close-minded at best.

						comment score: 3 | u/Takin2000
						>English isn't standardized by a regulatory body in the same way
						that German is. There are lots of different dictionaries, most
						of whom are just trying their best to keep up with the constant
						evolution of the English language. The dictionaries who don't do
						that are trying to dictate the language rather than record it,
						but, since there's no consensus on their authority to do that,
						they kinda just get left behind. Oh thats interesting i didnt
						know that.Thanks for the info! >I understand that you're trying
						to say that people think that dictionaries are objective. But
						they're not. Not even in German, where some people sit down in a
						room to decide what "counts" as "real" German, and everybody
						else's perspectives are left out. Why should we be limited in
						our language by someone else's incorrect ideas? I agree its not
						objective.But is there any alternative to the concept of a
						dictionary/how would it look like? >And it's fine to not know
						everything already! That's super reasonable. But people who
						react to new information by clinging to a simplified version
						that they already know are acting close-minded at best.
						Agreed.However, there is sometimes the case that people make up
						definitions that literally no one else uses just to fit their
						narrative so people (atleast from where im from) are generally
						on the guard when someone questions the dictionaries definition,
						so i think that such a reaction is understandable.If you have an
						actual trustworthy source for your definition, then i
						wholeheartedly agree with you that no one can deny the
						authenticity of the definition and they would be arguing in bad
						faith simply ignoring that definition.

		comment score: 3 | u/_Random_Thoughts_
		This might open up the person for further discussion, but the onus
		now would be on the OP to present their definition of the words to
		further the discussion.

	comment score: 10 | u/threewholefish
	In the majority of these scenarios (i.e. to do with how you look),
	the sexism stems from the fact that women are objectified and their
	value is attributed to their attractiveness or sexual worth. I would
	say these fall under the definition of prejudicing, discriminating
	and stereotyping against women, as men are not held to the same
	standards. The cackling hens comment is outright stereotypical. >I've
	been told that those are isolated incidents made by "jerks" This
	isn't exactly a contradiction: just because a jerk said something
	rude to you, it doesn't mean that it couldn't have been sexist. If a
	non-jerk said the same thing, that would also be sexist.

		comment score: 4 | u/Whystare
		Is it misandry to tell a man he's ugly ? Or comment on his looks?
		Also shouldn't telling a girl she's good looking also fall under
		misogyny in your dictionary ?

			comment score: 2 | u/threewholefish
			Calling someone ugly in and of itself is not misogynistic or
			misandrist, it's just rude. However, specifically in the case of
			man talking to a woman, it can be a sexist act because of the fact
			that women's value is linked to how they look. Similarly, a man
			calling a woman good looking can be sexist depending on the context
			and the delivery. It's not really about a single act in a vacuum,
			it's the fact that these sorts of comments are made to women all
			the time, simply because they are women. In certain circumstances,
			it's not necessarily sexist to talk about looks, but by and large,
			especially when talking to or about strangers, it is.

				comment score: 2 | u/Whystare
				>However, specifically in the case of man talking to a woman, it
				can be a sexist act because of the fact that women's value is
				linked to how they look. Similarly, a man calling a woman good
				looking can be sexist depending on the context and the delivery.
				Why do you think a woman's value is linked to how she looks?
				That's horrible! I agree that it's a rude thing to do in most
				circumstances, but I don't think it's sexism. How is telling
				someone how they look discriminatory? Also, it happening everyday
				makes it worse, more rude, it changes it's place on the  wholesome
				--- nice ---- rude --- fked up  scale. But it doesn't move it to
				another scale entirely! Especially when done by several people
				(why would one's action be judged by what many others do?)

					comment score: 2 | u/threewholefish
					>Why do you think a woman's value is linked to how she looks?
					That's horrible! I'm not sure if you're being serious or not... I
					do not think this, but society does, by and large. >I agree that
					it's a rude thing to do in most circumstances, but I don't  think
					it's sexism. How is telling someone how they look discriminatory?
					In many cases, it's objectification- reduction of women to
					physical appearance. There are certain situations in which it
					might be appropriate, or at least not offensive, to comment on
					others' physical appearance, e.g. fashion shows, medical
					assessments, while trying on new clothes, etc. etc. Most of the
					time, however, it's not appropriate, and it's the first thing
					that people think about and say to women. Women are held to a
					higher standard of beauty than men. They are generally expected
					to wear makeup, smile more, shave, be skinny, have a more varied
					wardrobe than men, etc. etc. Anyone not conforming to these
					standards is usually confronted about it. It is this sort of
					confrontation which is considered discriminatory and sexist:
					you're treating a woman differently than you would a man. An
					important point here is that it's not about individual intent,
					but societal expectations and their manifestation in the form of
					comments about appearance. >Also, it happening everyday makes it
					worse, more rude, it changes it's place on the   >   >wholesome
					--- nice ---- rude --- fked up   >   >scale.   >   >But  it
					doesn't move it to another scale entirely! Especially when done
					by  several people The two scales are not mutually exclusive. You
					can try to be nice and still be sexist. > (why would one's action
					be judged by what many others  do?) We live in a world where
					certain actions have certain connotations based on how others use
					them. There is a reason that the [Bellamy
					salute](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bellamy_salute) is no
					longer given during the Pledge of Allegiance: the Nazis started
					using it, and people didn't want to be associated with them. It
					is the same with making a remark about someone else's appearance;
					you must consider how your actions are perceived by others,
					regardless of intent.

	comment score: 4 | u/aldabaran88
	In general, making fun of someone requires the instigator to assert
	themselves over another person by exhibiting themselves as superior
	or stating that the other person is inferior. Doing this to someone
	of a different gender or race than oneself is sexist or racist by the
	textbook’s definition, even if they claim to think that they are not
	superior. If people are using that poor definition provided in your
	textbook as a loophole for disrespectful behavior, they’re just
	assholes.

	comment score: 4 | u/begonetoxicpeople
	The way I think of it- sexism is the systemic and structural
	discrimination against one sex or gender. Individuals can be
	misogynistic, and I would say those examples you gave were. Misogyny
	is more a symptom of a sexist culture.

	comment score: 3 | u/unic0de000
	> How do I argue against the dictionary's definition? I suggest that
	anyone making you do this is not really trying to use language in
	good faith. Either you're interested in trying to understand the
	meaning someone's words carry, or not.

	comment score: 2 | u/vixenthoughts
	Dictionary definitions are synopsized versions of the word they aim
	to define. For complex concepts such as racism and sexism, dictionary
	definitions don't take into account that nuance. You should mention
	that.

	comment score: 1 | u/AirBreather5000
	I wouldn't even interact with these types of people. I understand
	that there can be grey areas, maybe when it comes to questionable
	jokes, but there are some very obvious lines that people cross and
	then try to act like it isn't sexism/racism.  Maybe you feel like you
	need to stand up to them or attempt to change their mind, but I've
	found that ignorant people really just want to get a rise out of you
	and they're not gonna hear you out the majority if the time.  I'm not
	the type that gets offended necessarily, but I do recognize there is
	a line where things just become blatantly disrespectful if crossed.
	I've always found shock value humor to be fucking lazy. It's almost
	never actually clever. It's not even that it's funny, what people
	find funny is that the person had the balls to say it.  Sorry for the
	rant lol

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	If you're trying to have an actual discussion, I would refrain from
	using either term. If you're trying to shut down a jerk, a little bit
	of bad faith goes a long way.  When they quote the dictionary ask
	them why/whether they believe dictionaries are the authorities on
	word usage. If they say they aren't, ask them why they are citing the
	dictionary. If they say anything affirming this view- dictionaries
	are the authority- great. Now all you need is a dictionary's take on
	this, which Merriam Webster kindly provides: *Dictionaries are often
	treated as the final arbiter in arguments over a word’s meaning, but
	they are not always well suited for settling disputes. The
	lexicographer’s role is to explain how words are (or have been)
	actually used, not how some may feel that they should be used, and
	they say nothing about the intrinsic nature of the thing named by a
	word, much less the significance it may have for individuals. When
	discussing concepts like racism, therefore, it is prudent to
	recognize that quoting from a dictionary is unlikely to either
	mollify or persuade the person with whom one is arguing.* They
	already established dictionaries as authorities on word usage. The
	dictionary itself says it is not well suited for settling disputes
	and that the word says nothing about the intrinsic nature of the
	thing named by the word. If they say "well, that's online" ask them
	why print is better than online. If they claim it has changed, you
	can agree that the online dictionary reflects the current usage of
	the word.  In the arguments I've witnessed, people try to appeal to
	other sources. No need to do that when the source they are citing
	explicitly says it has its limitations and is not well suited for
	settling disputes. Toss out the word always: there's a good chance
	they won't notice and, if they do, you can agree and say it doesn't
	apply in this case and that, whatever they want to call it, it still
	amounts to the same thing.  That's how to argue against the
	dictionary's definition--with the dictionary.

		comment score: 2 | u/amazing_sheep
		I think this argument is just way too theoretical in order to
		convince bystanders which makes it unpractical when facing blatant
		sexism or racism.

			comment score: 1 | u/None
			That specific chain of events, yes, but I think the core logic
			works reasonably well. You're citing the same source they're
			citing. With sexism you can use the second, not the first,
			definition.  It's basically the argument that the dictionary isn't
			the end all be all way to define Word use.. but citing the
			dictionary itself to make that argument.

				comment score: 2 | u/amazing_sheep
				> It's basically the argument that the dictionary isn't the end
				all be all way to define Word use.. but citing the dictionary
				itself to make that argument. While this is a sensible sentiment I
				don't think that a discussion about sexism and racism is the right
				time and place. Given the topic the argument is probably going to
				be atleast somewhat tense and chances are that they won't be able
				to entirely follow your argument. As long as people don't
				understand your argument the other side is going to have an easy
				time making the point that you are arguing "feelings over facts"
				(because dictionary = facts) and then say something about how it's
				typical for filthy post modernists to say that words have no
				meaning at all etc.

					comment score: 1 | u/None
					If people don't respond to your argument, they lose.

	comment score: -1 | u/derpdepp
	> How do I argue against the dictionary's definition? I wouldn't even
	go there, no need to. If someone is talking down to a girl, it's
	either because it makes him feel superior or because he really thinks
	he's superior. Either way, it's dictionary sexism. Now maybe he
	doesn't think he's superior *because he's a man*. Maybe he's talking
	down to everybody and thinks he's superior to everyone. Well
	congratulations, now that's technically not dictionary sexism
	anymore, it's dictionary "being an asshole in general". Is that any
	better? Hell no.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 27 | r/AskSocialScience | u/sje46 | 14 comments | 2019-01-31 | https://redd.it/alm2ya
POST TITLE: What is the emic view of shame-honor based cultures?
From what I understand of this concept, in guilt-innocence-based cultures (like the US), what prevents people from doing something wrong is an inherent sense of guilt.  And in shame-honor-based cultures (like Japan), what prevents people from doing something wrong is how others, or society in general, will view them.  And that people will commonly do things that are wrong as long as they are very sure they won't get caught.  I would never cheat on a test, because I would feel very guilty...regardless if I get caught or not.  But in a shame culture, people won't feel any guilt for cheating at all, as long as they're careful. Correct me if I'm wrong!
To my Western mind, it seems to me that guilt cultures are more sincere, more true, and that shame cultures are shallow, caring only about appearances.  But this is probably cultural bias!  So I'm wondering how do shame cultures feel about the fact they're shame cultures?  Do they find the whole thing insincere and/or out-dated, or do they think it's better than guilt cultures?
Something I've been wondering about for a while.  Thank you for the insight!

	comment score: 17 | u/cloyblithe
	Not quiet an answer but thought you may like to start by defining
	'shame-honour-based' and 'guilt-innocence-based' cultures.  The
	question is premised on the idea that these labels exist. I'm not
	convinced that Japan or the US incorporate one of these labels at the
	exclusion of the other. That is to say Japan is both 'guilt-
	innocence-based' and 'shame-honour-based'.

		comment score: 8 | u/None
		Just dropping this here https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guilt-Shame-
		Fear_spectrum_of_cultures So yes, apparently it's a thing, and it's
		a spectrum so you're both sort of right

			comment score: 14 | u/HTxxD
			Seems like the work of only one or a few scholars with their own
			biases. I would be very skeptical of how well a Western scholar can
			correctly identify flaws in their own culture and merits in a very
			different culture.

				comment score: 7 | u/None
				To piggy-back on /u/HTxxD and their comment, I'm highly dubious of
				this concept. It doesn't appear that there is a lot of modern
				scholarship on this subject; moreover, the book upon which it
				appears to be based is *The Chrysanthemum and the Sword* is a book
				that has elicited intense debate in anthropological circles.
				Among many problems are methodological and assumption-based. The
				book was written at the behest of the State Department and was not
				based on intense ethnographic fieldwork in Japan but based on
				secondary research - accounts from missionaries and evangelists
				and others who wrote about Japanese society; it was also taken
				from interviews with those who had experience with the Japanese
				military, namely ex-military men themselves. Had I used ex-Russian
				military members and accounts of Russia written by others to be my
				primary data source, I would have an incredibly warped sense of
				what Russian culture is.  To my mind, the existence of a Wikipedia
				entry does not necessarily prove that these terms are acceptable
				or that we should be basing research upon them. I think /u/sje46
				needs to first establish that these are, indeed, areas worthy of
				inquiry. The fact that this also seems rooted in oppositional
				cultures that are painted as monolithic - "American" and
				"Japanese" - I'm a little dubious of the ability to not only
				replicate a study but to find coherence in concepts that require
				the suspension of belief.

				comment score: -8 | u/sje46 (OP)
				Who said anything about flaws and merits?  It's well established
				fact that shame is a big part of life in countries like Japan,
				bigger than other countries like the US. Do you disagree with that
				idea?   Of course both concepts exist both places, but what
				matters is what has more sway in how people live their lives.

					comment score: 7 | u/None
					I know there's a pervasive attitude on Reddit that because
					something is said, or someone found an article (no matter how
					dubious the source) that conforms to their hypothesis, that they
					think something has been proven; but, what you haven't
					established is what this all means.  What's a shame culture?
					What's a guilt culture? Is it possible to be a majority guilt
					culture at one point in time under certain circumstances and then
					a majority shame culture at others? It's also difficult to say
					that the concept of "American" and "Japanese" culture is useful -
					they're evolving and dynamic, it's hard to say that what was true
					in 1944 is true of 2019 or that there is a way to quantifiably
					say what "American" culture is. Benedict was writing in the 1940s
					in New York, so her concept of "American" was probably informed
					by her time and location more so than any clear definition of
					American.  Is it possible that she saw more of a guilt culture
					based on her impression of Protestant and Catholic New Yorkers?
					Absolutely. But, we'd need to test for that and understand what
					it is we mean by a guilt culture more than anything else.

	comment score: 6 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 0 | u/sje46 (OP)
		I understand the advantanges of a shame culture, and I can also see
		possible disadvantages.  I'm not really asking about whether it's a
		good system or not.  I'm just wondering how the people who live
		under this system feels about it.  They may think it's better...but
		do they also think it's a bit inherently insincere?  What are the
		emic attitudes? >Have you ever stepped back and looked at the
		inherent bias of judging Eastern shame-based cultures according to
		Western, Greek-derived notions of true/false and sincerity? Yeah,
		that's sorta the whole point of my question.  Am I being biased
		here, or do people in shame cultures feel a similar way?

	comment score: 3 | u/Jumbologist
	That's a great question!According to Tracy & Robins' model of shame
	(2006), publicity is not a necessary antecedent of shame. The problem
	is that there is some confusion between shame and embarassment (the
	latter does require the event to become public to be elicited). You
	can do something shameful and still feel ashamed while not being
	caught. A potential source of the confusion is that anthropologist
	and psychoanalysts and phemonologists did said that the public-
	dimension of shame was central in its definition. But data suggest it
	is not. The three appraisals eliciting shame are Internal blame,
	blaming the whole self (vs. a specific behavior), feeling that it is
	stable (vs. It will pass), and feeling that it is beyond our control
	(vs. I can change it). See also Tangney & Dearing, 2002, a really
	great book that offer good insights on the psychological differences
	between shame and guilt.So no, Shame is not shallow, or caring about
	appearance. It's actually a private emotion that only require that we
	internalize other's point of view. Which could also be said for
	guilt.  EDIT: I'll might add that after talking with a Japanese about
	shame and guilt cultures, he was pretty proud to come from a shame
	culture. You see guilt is perceived as a more individualistic
	behavior (even kind of selfish), whereas shame serves the group, it's
	more devoted to your ingroup.

		comment score: 2 | u/Jumbologist
		I don't know if I'm allowed to do that, if not, **tell me, and I'll
		delete it right away!**    " *This public-private distinction
		remains a frequently cited basis for distinguishing between shame
		and guilt. Gehm and Scherer (1988), for example, speculated that
		"shame is usually dependent on the public exposure of one's frailty
		or failing, whereas guilt may be something that re- mains a secret
		with us, no one else knowing of our breach of social norms or of our
		responsibility for an immoral act" (p. 74).*  *As it turns out,there
		isn't much empirical support for this public- private distinction.
		In fact, results from several recent studies call into question this
		long-standing notion (Tangney, Marschall, Rosenberg, Barlow,&
		Wagner,1994; Tangney,Miller,Flicker,& Barlow,1996).For example, we
		conducted what appears to be the first systematic analysis of
		"audiences" to shame- and guilt-eliciting events (Tangney et al.,
		1994). In this study, w e asked several hundred children and adults
		to describe recent events in which they had experienced shame,
		guilt, and pride. W e then analyzed these narrative accounts of
		real-life emotion episodes to evaluate,among other things, just how
		public or private these events really were.*  *Our results clearly
		challenge the anthropologists' public-private distinction. Although
		shame and guilt were both most often experienced in the presence of
		others (among both children and adults), a substantial number of
		respondents reported shame experiences occurring alone—when not in
		the presence of others. More important, "solitary" shame was about
		as prevalent as "solitary" guilt (see Figure 2.1). Among
		children,17.2% of shame narratives versus 14.9% of guilt narratives
		involved situations in which no other person was present. Among
		adults, 16.5% of shame episodes versus 22.5% of guilt episodes were
		experienced alone. (Pride was most likely to be experienced alone;
		33.8% of the children and 25.5% of the adults reported solitary
		pride experiences.)"*   **Tangney & Dearing, 2002,** ***Shame &
		Guilt*****, p. 14**

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/sje46 (OP)
		It sounds like you're conflating the two concepts.  The entire
		distinction between guilt and shame here is that guilt is self-
		derived, and shame is inherently based from how others feel about
		you.  So if no one knows you did something, then it can never be
		shame. Colloquially the two terms can be used to refer to the same
		thing, although there is still a distinction in some contexts.  But
		in a strict sociological sense, guilt and shame are two different
		things.

			comment score: 1 | u/nickcan
			I disagree.  >Psychoanalyst Helen B. Lewis argued that, "The
			experience of shame is directly about the self, which is the focus
			of evaluation. In guilt, the self is not the central object of
			negative evaluation, but rather the thing done is the focus."
			Similarly, Fossum and Mason say in their book *Facing Shame* that
			"While guilt is a painful feeling of regret and responsibility for
			one's actions, shame is a painful feeling about oneself as a
			person." ([wikipedia snip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shame)) I
			take that to mean that shame occurs when you have failed to live up
			to your standards (or societies standards) of right or wrong. It is
			an internal feeling of moral failure. Guilt is about the act that
			you did, not your failing as a person. It is quite possible for a
			person who believes they are moral to feel guilty for an action.
			Shame occurs when a person feels their actions demonstrate that
			they are not in fact a moral person.

	comment score: 2 | u/craigiest
	I am curious whether the sociologists advocating this taxonomy have
	given any thought to is relation to Kohlberg's stages of moral
	development... https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence_Kohlberg%27s_
	stages_of_moral_development

-----------------------------------------

post score: 21 | r/AskFeminists | u/rachieandthewaves | 28 comments | 2019-02-26 | https://redd.it/av6mkm
POST TITLE: How do I deal with a potential mysoginist in my friend group?
I’m friends with a group of all boys. So far, they’ve been totally accepting of me and my feminist beliefs and agree with me for the most part. However, there is one member of the friend group whose views I find problematic.
He hates nearly all female-centred media (Ocean’s Eight, Ghostbusters, the new Doctor Who are examples he’s mentioned.) However, he states his reasoning for not liking these media are the writing, the actors etc. He says that none of the actors are compelling and they are dull. His latest critique is with the new Captain Marvel. He took issue with Brie Larson’s comments about white males and stated that she doesn’t embody the role (he hasn’t seen the movie yet.) He says her attitude to the movie is wrong and he called her dull and monotone. He’s made me feel bad for liking these forms of media. He sends me images of Doctor Who’s low score on Rotten Tomatos and he’s even hacked Rotten Tomatos to make Captain Marvel look like it got a low audience score in order to trick me into thinking it was bad.
I know that these issues are minor compared to other major issues concerning gender equality. Even my friends say that he’s got a bias against female leads. They’ve tried before to change his mind. I have no problem with people not liking these movies. For ages, I thought that he just disliked those movies because he just thought they were bad. But now that I notice the pattern in female-centric movies, it makes me feel kind of uncomfortable and insecure in the group. Perhaps I’m being overly sensitive.
I know I shouldn’t make it such a big deal. I’m not saying that he’s a sexist, but I definitely think that he might have an unconscious bias against women. The issue is that I really like my friends and they’ve helped me through some tough times. I’m afraid of bringing it up because I don’t want to distinguish my status any further as the only girl in the group. I don’t want to feel like the other. Hanging out with this guy is kind of part of the deal with this group of friends, so what should I do?
Update: He’s upset with Rotten Tomatos’ attempts to remove the pre-metric score to combat trolls. Every day, he’s bringing the Captain Mavel issue up.

	comment score: 27 | u/NSFDoubleBlue
	I've been in similar situations before with friends, the thing that's
	helped me work through it is to stop trying to discuss the actual
	issue causing the disagreement, and to instead talk with them about
	the way that the issue made me feel. So for example, I have a friend
	who used to make a lot of homophobic jokes and it made me very
	uncomfortable, anytime I tried to tell her that the things she was
	saying were homophobic I'd be met with things like "I don't really
	see how it's homophobic though," "Who cares if it's homophobic, it's
	still funny," or "Yeah but clearly *I'm* not homophobic, I'm friends
	with you and you're gay," trying to argue about the topic itself was
	unproductive and only escalated things; what helped was to not argue
	about homophobia or the joke itself, but to just explain how the
	jokes made me feel, after I told her that those sorts of jokes made
	me uncomfortable and reminded me of other hurtful things I'd heard in
	the past and that it was difficult to hear those things from a
	friend, she was able to start understanding my side of things better
	and stopped making homophobic jokes (almost overnight tbh.)
	Sometimes it's just not possible to get someone to agree with you on
	an issue, especially if it's something they're set in their ways
	about, but if you can make that issue more personal to them by
	talking about how the issue is important to you and how it makes you
	feel, you can help them open up their mind a bit more to change.
	Maybe instead of talking to him about whether or not he's being
	sexist, just try telling him that the way he talks sometimes makes
	you feel uncomfortable and insecure; if he values you as a friend
	then he should care about whether or not you're comfortable and he
	might make a bit more of an effort to change, and if he doesn't seem
	to care about your comfort then he's probably not much of a friend
	and nothing of value will be lost if you have to stop talking with
	him lol.

		comment score: 9 | u/SwellFloop
		This is a really good point... I used to refuse to recognize the
		privilege I had as a white-passing person until my mom (who’s Asian)
		brought it up in the context of her own experiences.

	comment score: 24 | u/None
	The obvious answer here is to get him into
	[Shaun](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJ6o36XL0CpYb6U5dNBiXHQ)
	One of his big themes is media analysis/debunking this sort of
	prerogative.  Best of luck helping him understand where he's wrong.

	comment score: 21 | u/SwellFloop
	While the videos people are suggesting are great, if you really want
	to change his mind don’t come at him with a bunch of feminist lingo
	or tell him he’s misogynistic because he’ll immediately shut down.
	The way to make a bigot come around is by going slowly, suggesting
	ideas to them one by one and then giving them time to mull those
	ideas over for a bit and possibly change their opinions. Confronting
	them will just make them even more stuck in their ways.

	comment score: 8 | u/Ayeprihl
	Ask him questions about his prejudices. If he tells a sexist joke,
	ask him to explain the joke. Then ask more and more detail until his
	joke is ruined and he looks silly for even bothering to tell it

	comment score: 7 | u/Vaguely-witty
	This might be a little too indepth for him for right now, but i think
	it might be useful: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6y8XgGhXkTQ](htt
	ps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6y8XgGhXkTQ)  It talks about gamergate
	(something a lot of these types of dudes I feel like fell for, and
	hit hard on them with), and a lot of the stuff that kind of ties in
	peripherally (like Anita Sarkeesian), which is why it's so lengthy.
	To me at least, it explains a lot. I have guy friends who are
	similar. They won't say something sexist to me, but I sense this
	unease in them when this sort of thing comes up. Theyre the type of
	slam The Last Jedi (which does have some issues, true) but they can't
	tell me why. When absolutely pressed, they just give this nebulous
	"oh, it's pandering..."  They feel uncomfortable with the realization
	dawning of how unfair it is. And so they push back.  edit in: also, i
	find [this
	analogy](http://timemachineyeah.tumblr.com/post/58648290519/this-is-
	a-jar-full-of-major-characters) helpful to try to explain to them why
	representation matters to them in a tangible way? Also the pop
	culture detective is pretty great for approaching some things for men
	and feminism together?
	[Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mWqVJZMh6-w&t=210s) is a link
	about him talking about TLJ and men's roles in it, and why it's
	upsetting for them.

	comment score: 5 | u/PrincessofPatriarchy
	It seems like all the movies/shows you listed are ones where previous
	franchises were remade with female leads. Does he have problems with
	female leads in movies/TV shows that are original? Ghost Busters was
	a group of guys, the Ocean's franchise was usually a group of
	primarily men and this was the first female Doctor in Doctor Who
	ever. It's not to say that these movies/shows are bad, but it's
	common for people to have a problem re-imagining existing characters.
	What was his reaction to the Wonder Woman movie as an example? What
	about the movie Alien? Are there any movies/shows where a strong
	female character or lead is shown and he dislikes it or is he only
	disliking the ones where women are replacing roles men used to play?
	There is a distinction between not liking female leads and not liking
	re-imaginations of classics.

	comment score: 5 | u/NerdyKeith
	Speaking as a feminist, I don’t agree that not liking those movies
	and shows necessarily equates to misogyny. New Ghostbusters movie
	wasn’t great and that has nothing to do with the gender of the cast.
	It just wasn’t a good movie. Although I do strongly disagree with the
	backlash some of the cast received around that movie’s release. If he
	has genuine criticism on these productions, I’d hear him out.
	Although some of his other behaviours are quite biased. I’d politely
	call him out. I’m sure he can take it.

	comment score: 4 | u/LickitySplit939
	I'm not sure if this breaks the rules since its a top level comment
	that's not strictly speaking feminist but I do identify as a feminist
	and I also hate the new Ghostbusters and Dr. Who, thought Ocean's 8
	was the worst of the franchise, and I think The Last Jedi will be the
	last Star Wars movie I ever watch (it was absolutely terrible).  I
	absolutely hate how Hollywood blockbusters become tangled up in
	politics and people seem to forced into loving or hating media
	regardless of how good it actually is.  I have nothing whatsoever
	against female leads or 'diversity', but that doesn't mean I need to
	like all media that has a female lead or is diverse. Black Panther
	was a below average Marvel movie. Into the Spider-Verse was great. I
	just saw and loved Alita.

	comment score: 3 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/rachieandthewaves (OP)
		He’s stated before that feminists are “man-hating and radical.” He
		also doesn’t really see a problem with meninists. He’s also stated
		about the possible upcoming Fantastic Four movie that he’d be okay
		with Invisible Woman on the team if she’s “not as smart as Mr
		Fantastic.” Other than that, it’s difficult to gauge what his actual
		beliefs are, or if he has other sexist tendencies, since most of the
		time, he just talks about movies and comics.

			comment score: 3 | u/ScoutforHire
			Okay, there's definitely some sexism there.  If he just believes
			"feminists", no quantifier, are "man-hating" then he's probably
			been burned by some overzealous types; not uncommon when you're
			dealing with... any kind of media-based hobby, really. If you can
			show him that you're not a particularly "bad" feminist (for
			instance, agree that new ghostbusters wasn't as good as old
			ghostbusters) and gain his trust, you might be able to help.  But
			Invisible Woman being required to be "not as smart as Mr.
			Fantastic" sounds like straight sexism, so I don't know how far you
			could push it.

	comment score: 3 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 3 | u/rachieandthewaves (OP)
		It’s kind of hard to explain, because a lot of it is in his tone of
		voice as well. He has targeted other female-centric movies before,
		but it’s the fact that his issues are with ONLY female-led films. He
		never criticises male-led movies. As well as this, he has stated in
		the past that feminists are “man-hating and radical.”

		comment score: -2 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed;
		this is your only warning.

			comment score: 1 | u/TheoRaan
			I am a feminist and this is from a feminist perspective. I asked
			for clarification or more relevant examples. Please clarify how
			that breaks the rules as I might have missed something and if I
			have, I apologize. But an explanation would come a long way to make
			sure I don't make this mistake again.

	comment score: 2 | u/oracular_duck
	Your post history doesn’t indicate that you are feminist. For
	example, acknowledging the existence of patriarchy, which you deny,
	is pretty much required Feminism 101. Your views on the issue of
	nudes on the internet are also not in line with feminist ideals about
	women’s agency and sexual shaming.

		comment score: 1 | u/TheoRaan
		I believe you ment to reply to me, but accidentally replied
		elsewhere. I see the confusion and I should clarify what I ment. I
		deny the existence of the patriarchy primarily in the west. If you
		were to go through my history again, you will see that I actually
		come from a 3rd world country that does have a patriarchy and
		labeling what happens in my country the same to what is happening in
		the west seems too different for me to comfortably label them the
		same thing.  I do not deny sexism against women in the west. I don't
		deny women are discriminated against in the west , nor do I deny
		women are oppressed in the west.  As for your idea of feminist 101,
		I am of the understanding that there is no strict definition of
		feminism. You could argue my definition does not fit yours but i
		don't believe that makes me any less of a feminist. And as for my
		views on the issues on nudes on the internet, please clarify where I
		said anything to deny women's agency or encourage sexual shaming. If
		I remember correctly, I said anyone had the right to do what they
		want, and their desire and decisions should be respected. I believe
		I also later on defended the exact point when someone said "What's
		wrong with slut shaming" to which I replied the shaming part. Is
		there any thing else I can explain for you cuz it would appear my
		warning was due to some lack of clarity on my part and some
		misunderstanding on yours.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[Show him this.](https://www.reddit.com/r/Standup/comments/5zkogm/alt
	right_redditors_have_tanked_amy_schumers/)

	comment score: 2 | u/ILikeNeurons
	Be really careful around this guy. [Misogynists are at greater risk
	of committing sexual
	assault](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4484276/).

	comment score: 1 | u/Ryosuke
	As someone who in the past has been sympathetic to  the whole " I
	just want to be able to say I don't like Ghostbusters without someone
	calling me a sexist " type of sentiment, you are absolutely not being
	overly sensitive. It's definitely uncomfortable and completely
	suspect that he would be so focused on those media in particular. I
	know people  here already shared videos but this one in particular I
	think is really good: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fMNWRqa-vGc&
	the author of the video basically argues against someone talking
	about  "forced diversity " in a very civil and engaging way.

	comment score: 0 | u/None
	[removed]

	comment score: -10 | u/oracular_duck
	Dump him. And if the rest of them side with him, dump them all.

		comment score: 10 | u/None
		So, you're suggesting op either isolates themself or isolates the
		bad guy in order for him to become even more radical in his beliefs?
		I don't really think this is actually such a great idea!

		comment score: 3 | u/rachieandthewaves (OP)
		I don’t really have the option of dumping all of them. I have severe
		social anxiety and it’s taken me years to make a solid group of
		friends.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 20 | r/AskSocialScience | u/None | 3 comments | 2020-05-04 | https://redd.it/gdfk27
POST TITLE: Cognitive Bias Correlations Between Objective Socio-Civic Competence and Ideology
We really could use your help. We need approximately 67 (or more participants to fill our subject pool sample requirements to be able to deliver results correlated to the general population of US voters.
We request your participation in a large and important academic research study being conducted by researchers at the University of Nevada Las Vegas. 
**Cognitive Bias Correlations Between Objective Socio-Civic Competence and Ideology**  
 
This study and survey are in no way attached to any commercial or government interest beyond the aegis of the university under whose authority the study is conducted.  The data shall not be used in any way beyond the analysis of the responses and none shall in any way be conveyed to any other entity whatsoever.  It is completely confidential. You will note we request no identifying information. It is 70 item multiple choice and opinion questions---should take less than 30 minutes. 

**The survey is a serious challenge (It ain’t easy.) but there are no trick questions or misleading items.   Please answer all of the questions and take your best shot if you don’t know the answer.**
Please contribute by participating.   When complete there will be no further contact unless you specifically request the results.  
 
Again we thank you and appreciate your efforts.  
 Steven Grubaugh PhD  
 Joseph Maderick PhD  
 
Please click the link to the study:  
 [https://unlv.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV\_9zBiOSJc6nJGduZ](https://unlv.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_9zBiOSJc6nJGduZ)

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
		Top level comments must include a peer reviewed citation that can be
		viewed via a link to the source. Please contact the mods if you feel
		this was inappropriately removed. *I am a bot, and this action was
		performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
		subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
		questions or concerns.*

-----------------------------------------

post score: 22 | r/AskSocialScience | u/StWd | 5 comments | 2019-05-08 | https://redd.it/bm790i
POST TITLE: Trying to find literature on class resentment and stereotyping, and how this affects the reliability of interview data when talking to participants about social class and class mobility.
[removed]

	comment score: 2 | u/X0ch1p1ll1
	So my background is sociolinguistics/linguistic anthropology, but
	because it intersects with economies of class and hegemony,
	especially in terms of narrative and communication, there are a
	couple I can think of off the top of my head that deal with class
	perpetuation and interview/interviewee dissonance. ***These most
	specifically deal with British notions of class and representation,
	and the role that the interviewer (alone or as a societal proxy) can
	play in the narrative:*** Watt, D., Llamas, C., & Ezra Johnson, D.
	(2010). Levels of linguistic accommodation across a national border.
	*Journal of English Linguistics*, *38*(3), 270-289.  Trudgill, P.
	(1972). Sex, covert prestige and linguistic change in the urban
	British English of Norwich. *Language in society*, *1*(2), 179-195.
	***Agha, Silverstein, and Johnstone are seminal in looking at these
	relationships and how they form meaning, both in and outside of
	research (but Agha works with RP specifically):*** Agha, A. (2003).
	The social life of cultural value. *Language & communication*,
	*23*(3-4), 231-273.  Silverstein, M. (2003). Indexical order and the
	dialectics of sociolinguistic life. *Language & communication*,
	*23*(3-4), 193-229.  Johnstone, B., Andrus, J., & Danielson, A. E.
	(2006). Mobility, indexicality, and the enregisterment of
	“Pittsburghese”. *Journal of English linguistics*, *34*(2), 77-104.
	***Bauman and Briggs, both together and separate, look a lot at
	ethnographer roles and responsibilities and how this informs our
	notions of modernity. The book is often focused on England/Western
	Europe/later the US because of the historical tack it takes in
	looking at how modernity is formed:*** Bauman, R., Briggs, C. L., &
	Briggs, C. S. (2003). *Voices of modernity: Language ideologies and
	the politics of inequality*(No. 21). Cambridge University Press.
	Briggs, C. L. (1983). Questions for the ethnographer: A critical
	examination of the role of the interview in fieldwork. *Semiotica*,
	*46*(2-4), 233-262.  ***Labov is our seminal guy on language change
	and its ties to class (especially in the American schools). His
	studies on Martha's Vineyard and rhotics in NYC Department stores are
	good foundational pieces that also are good centerpieces for later
	discourse around class, narrative elicitation and the role of
	interviewers:*** Labov, W. (1963). The social motivation of a sound
	change. *Word*, *19*(3), 273-309.  ***Bucholtz, Hall, Jane Hill,
	Jonathan Rosa and Nelson Flores (plus many related others) are all
	very transparent about the push towards self-reflexivity when looking
	at intersections of race/gender/class in sociolinguistic,
	anthropological, and discursive research. This is getting kind of
	further away from your initial question though, so I'm just giving a
	few here:*** Bucholtz, M. (2000). The politics of transcription.
	*Journal of pragmatics*, *32*(10), 1439-1465.  Hall, K. (2014).
	Hypersubjectivity: Language, anxiety, and indexical dissonance in
	globalization. *Journal of Asian Pacific Communication*, *24*(2),
	261-273.  Coupland, N. (2004). Sociolinguistic perspectives on
	metalanguage: Reflexivity, evaluation and ideology Nikolas Coupland
	and Adam Jaworski. *Metalanguage: Social and ideological
	perspectives*, 15.   I know it's tough not having access to
	university resources, so if you can't track down these individual
	articles, any author you particularly resonate with has probably
	written a book on the subject, especially the bigger names. They
	might be easier to find. These fields haven't always been very self-
	reflexive about the effect of the Observer Paradox, but I think the
	literature is moving in a direction that tries to look at these
	narratives from several different perspectives to get a more nuanced
	understanding of meaning-making and language use coupled with ideas
	about social value and social mobility. Again, I'm sorry my
	suggestions are pretty deeply entrenched in a few fields, but
	hopefully this is a good start. I hope your research bears the fruit
	you're looking for!

		comment score: 1 | u/StWd (OP)
		Thanks very much for such a detailed answer! This is only
		tangentially related to my work atm but it seems a lot of people
		publishing in this area kinda dodge the question. I think probably
		mainly because these kinds of beliefs don't really seem to impact a
		person's social practices or usually correlate to their social
		position anyway. The real question from this would be whether having
		certain beliefs about "moving up in the world" effects your
		practice, like would you take more risks in order to try it, and
		there is plenty of research about that.  I'll try sci-hub or contact
		friends at various unis and see if they can do anything ;)

	comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	>While these narratives seem to have some research about them, it
	seems that the effect of these beliefs and how they might influence
	the performance of research participants in interviews doesn't seem
	to have been discussed much- or at least, I'm struggling to find
	anything about it. The thing is...I would suggest that something like
	*social desirability* is more of a problem for researchers using
	survey and experimental methodology to do quantitative research,
	rather than a problem for qualitative researchers. Why? It is
	necessary beforehand to assess the objectives of a given study and
	why a given method is chosen. For example, qualitative research is
	useful to explore an individual's or a group's *perception of
	reality* and *construction of reality*. If a researcher actually
	wants to know if an individual "moving up in the world" has *really*
	been changed or remained the same - and if they have changed, in
	which manner - then they will adopt an appropriate method to delve
	into this individual's story, such as using a more biographic
	approach or interviewing other people in this individual's social
	network. There are different tools and approaches for different
	research questions and objectives, and different manners to analyze
	something. Citing [Carla Willig and Wendy Stainton-
	Rogers](https://www.sagepub.com/hi/cab/the-sage-handbook-of-
	qualitative-research-in-psychology/book245472), >There is also a
	**difference between qualitative methods of analysis which presuppose
	a clearly defined theoretical orientation and those which do not**.
	For example, **discourse analytic research presupposes that discourse
	constructs rather than reflects versions of reality, and that
	language use is performative.** >This means that **what research
	participants say is not taken at ‘face value’** and that the
	application of the methodological procedure itself constitutes an act
	of interpretation, generating a theoretically informed reading.
	Furthermore, studies do not exist in a vacuum. You can compare the
	results of a collection of interviews with, for example, what
	quantitative research has found about the topic (e.g. what surveys
	tell about attitudes), or what other approaches to qualitative
	research have uncovered, like participant and non-participant
	observation (or even mix these in a mixed methods research). And
	while qualitative research does not aim to produce *generalizable*
	data, sampling can still be done in a way to have different points of
	view according to different backgrounds and individual
	characteristics and see what themes emerge, for example. --- That
	said, yes, there is plenty of research on the topic of social
	representations of other social groups, how beliefs affect attitudes
	and behavior, etc. For example, on the topic of how poverty is
	represented in the mind of Americans, [just world beliefs and other b
	eliefs](https://spssi.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/0022-45
	37.00209) are related to how people think about the poor and what
	attitudes they have in their regard: >Stereotypes about the poor were
	found to be significantly more negative than stereotypes about the
	middle class. In addition, participants were most likely to blame
	poor people themselves for their poverty. However, **affect toward
	the poor, stereotypes about the poor, and attributions for the causes
	of poverty were found to vary among individuals from different
	sociodemographic backgrounds** and to be **related to core American
	values** such as the **work ethic** and **belief in a just world.**
	Social psychology is very much interested in this topic and much
	research can be found on it. Sidanius and Pratto's [Social dominance
	theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_dominance_theory)
	suggests that the social hierarchy and inequality are upheld, among
	other things, by '[legitimising myths](http://blogs.sciences-
	po.fr/recherche-inegalites/files/2010/04/article-th%25C3%25A9orie-de-
	la-dominance.pdf)': >Social dominance theory distinguishes between
	two functional types of legitimising  myths. **Hierarchy-enhancing
	legitimising  myths (HE-LMs) provide moral and intellectual
	justification for group-based oppression and  inequality**.  Examples
	include  myriad  forms  of  racism,  sexism, heterosexism,
	**stereotypes**, notions of ‘‘fate’’, **just world beliefs**,
	nationalism,Confucianism, the doctrine of meritorious karma,
	**classism**, the Divine Rights of Kings, Manifest Destiny, and
	**internal attributions for poverty**. Such disparate myths have been
	**used to argue that inequality is fair, legitimate, natural, or
	moral**. Hierarchy-enhancing legitimising myths not only organise
	individual, group, and institutional behaviour in ways that sustain
	dominance, they often lead subordinates to collaborate with dominants
	in the maintenance of oppression. However, dominance is seldom
	uncontested. Ideologies that counter dominance are called hierarchy-
	attenuating legitimising myths (HA-LMs). Jost's [System justification
	theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_justification) attempts
	to explain why minorities happen to contribute and uphold a system
	that puts them in disadvantage by suggesting that both the majority
	and the minority learn ways to justify this system as right. Citing
	[Jost and Banaji](http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~banaji/research/
	publications/articles/1994_Jost_BJSP.pdf): >**Based on theories of
	and data on  self-perception, attribution, cognitive conservatism,
	the division of social roles, behavioural confirmation, and the
	belief in a  just world**, we stipulate a  process whereby
	**stereotypes are used to explain the existing social system and the
	positions and actions of self and others**. This notion, as we have
	said, is not new. The resistance-to-change  view  underlies  broad-
	scale social philosophies  such as marxism and feminism as well as
	psychological  accounts of cognitive conservatism, confirmation
	biases, and implicit stereotyping. Tajfel and Turner's [Social
	identity
	theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_identity_theory) can
	also be used to understand how people perceive themselves, others and
	their relationship with social mobility. Together with, for example,
	Taylor and McKirnan's [five-stage model of intergroup relations](http
	s://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.2044-8309.1984.tb00644.
	x) and Ellemers and colleagues [research on the conditions in which a
	member of a disadvantaged group will attempt to abandon their group](
	https://research.vu.nl/ws/portalfiles/portal/575433/Ellemers+Journal+
	of+Personality+and+Social+Psychology+72%283%29+1997+u.pdf), it is
	possible to understand how believing in a just world and in the
	possibility of social and economic mobility (which may be more or
	less exaggerated depending on the country) can affect acceptance for
	the status quo, attempts to abandon a stigmatized group (if
	possible), attempt to engage in [social creativity](https://en.wikipe
	dia.org/wiki/Social_identity_theory#Social_creativity) (e.g. "Black
	people are not good enough for academia, but Black people can make it
	big via sports or music, so we will enhance our self-esteem by
	disengaging from the former to value the latter"). All of this plays
	into how a person will describe themselves and others depending on
	which identity is salient. --- I am, of course, glossing over a lot.

		comment score: 1 | u/StWd (OP)
		Thanks for such a detailed response. I am less interested in these
		actual narrative justifications for beliefs than I am in how these
		beliefs would affect our ability to say "x data supports y theory",
		especially as the one I'm building is largely based on Bourdieu's.
		I suppose another branch of work for anyone looking in this
		direction would be looking at the various justification systems
		you've mentioned and how they may be more likely to be accepted in
		certain social positions, and whether belief in certain systems can
		act similarly to other beliefs that can be theorised as forms of
		cultural capital in Bourdieu's system, kinda like Fromm's take on
		Calvinism.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[deleted]

		comment score: 1 | u/StWd (OP)
		I've done a little on that in the past and it's not really what I'm
		on about here.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 17 | r/AskFeminists | u/VeryCanadian | 7 comments | 2019-02-09 | https://redd.it/ap0kjn
POST TITLE: What are some scientifically proven ways to reduce people's gender biases / misogyny?
It's funny, I found a pretty decent trove of information on how to reduce racial bias/racism in others, but struggled to find information online as to how to reduce gender bias/misogyny. Do you have any good sources on this, i.e. scientific papers?

	comment score: 17 | u/the_diabeatdown
	I don’t have an answer to your question, but if you wouldn’t mind,
	I’d love to hear what you’ve come across for racial-biases. You could
	message me if you’d like!

		comment score: -3 | u/marxism_is_bad
		have women winning nobel prizes in physics would be a start. it
		would change the perception that women are typically less
		scientifically minded than men

			comment score: 15 | u/MizDiana
			Eh... Marie Curie won two Nobel prizes over 100 years ago (physics
			and chemistry), and was the first person to win two Nobels, last I
			checked. And Donna Strickland won the physics Nobel just last year.
			Can't change perceptions if people don't even realize it's
			happened.

				comment score: -8 | u/marxism_is_bad
				I wonder how women / non-whites feel knowing that in the current
				political environment any accomplishment that gets recognition
				will be questioned because of progressive activists.   It must
				suck having to convince people "hey I actually earnt this".

					comment score: 9 | u/MizDiana
					Um... who were you trying to respond to?

	comment score: 12 | u/johnnymayhew28
	The idea that there should be biological or scientific proof of
	equality before we stop being prejudiced is a total fallacy imo. It
	is often demanded in conversation with "skeptics" who are trying to
	excuse their own behaviour as "just science"; but to fulfill their
	request in itself is missing the point entirely. Biology should not
	be used as an excuse for prejudice: simply because something is
	natural, doesn't make it fair, or morally right. If (hypothetically)
	scientific evidence that women were less intelligent, less reliable,
	and generally less competent than men arose, we should still not use
	this as grounds for bias. Women should still be given the same
	opportunities as men. If not, you are effectively admitting that you
	think certain people are more valuable than others, which is a
	concept that's only a few steps away from eugenics.

	comment score: 3 | u/Kirstemis
	Delusions of Gender by Cordelia someone is the book you're looking
	for.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 16 | r/AskSocialScience | u/None | 1 comments | 2019-05-02 | https://redd.it/bjrl4y
POST TITLE: Is there any evidence on whenever the "new" style of school textbooks yields better results or a more engaged student than traditional books?
[deleted]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 18 | r/AskSocialScience | u/zedhatool | 26 comments | 2019-06-29 | https://redd.it/c6xebv
POST TITLE: Where does Prejudice + Power come from
People often use the prejudice + power definition as a way to define racism. Where does this definition come from and why is it good or useful?
(And what are alternatives to it?)

	comment score: 13 | u/TychoCelchuuu
	This comes up pretty often. Some places to start: https://reddit.com/
	r/AskSocialScience/comments/10pky7/sociological_definition_of_racisms
	exism/?st=jqxj0dd7&sh=19c6483a https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/
	comments/40iwvr/i_see_many_argue_its_impossible_to_be_racist/?st=jqxj
	0eqb&sh=de92d274 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/2to4r
	e/is_prejudice_power_racism_given_preference_or/?st=jqxj0gbw&sh=9f59c
	8af https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/3j8wl6/is_there_an
	y_literature_on_the_existence_or_lack/?st=jqxj0hzi&sh=ddf55d34 https:
	//reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/1kq6e6/racism_prejudice_powe
	r_is_this_a_legitimate/?st=jqxj0iyf&sh=9416c34e https://reddit.com/r/
	AskSocialScience/comments/3smkja/why_cant_black_people_be_racist/?st=
	jqxj0kj9&sh=141f5246 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/1
	cl6rs/im_not_sure_if_this_belongs_here_but_can_other/?st=jqxj0mdo&sh=
	ff206317 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/1l2gwp/what_a
	re_the_sociological_definitions_of_racism/?st=jqxj0rhf&sh=a8a3679b ht
	tps://www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/ag5jq5/when_where_an
	d_how_did_the_only_white_people_can/?st=jrcu9fho&sh=24c78f8c https://
	www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/az5rgq/who_changed_the_def
	inition_of_racism_to_power/?st=jxhe9rda&sh=0c677c7d

		comment score: 3 | u/zedhatool (OP)
		Thanks this is really helpful

		comment score: 2 | u/TheMoustacheLady
		just to recap, so Racial Discrimination and Bigotry is different
		from racism, in which Racism is Prejudice+ Power?

			comment score: 9 | u/TychoCelchuuu
			That's one way to slice things up, yes. This is not really an area
			where there's just one single right answer.

				comment score: 1 | u/TheMoustacheLady
				Thanks, so when i want to define racism, a good way to start is by
				saying "it's a system of oppression...."  If i may ask, what
				contributes to the "systems" of oppression?

					comment score: 11 | u/TychoCelchuuu
					>Thanks, so when i want to define racism, a good way to start is
					by saying "it's a system of oppression...." If you're defining
					it, it's up to you! >If i may ask, what contributes to the
					"systems" of oppression? Lots of things! One good place to start
					is Omi and Winant's *Racial Formation in the United States*.

			comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			Generally speaking, discrimination is a different object from
			prejudice and -isms, regardless of how racism is defined. For
			example, in psychology (in which racism is commonly shorthand for
			racial prejudice), prejudice is an attitude and discrimination is a
			behavior.  Likewise, bigotry has to be clearly defined. If it is
			intolerance towards 'others', then it can be considered an *aspect*
			of prejudice or racism, regardless of whether racism is racial
			prejudice, or racism is power plus prejudice.

			comment score: -2 | u/nixyboy
			How do you define “prejudice” and “power”? Are groups of minority
			thugs beating up a white guy in a white society racism?

				comment score: 8 | u/TheMoustacheLady
				i'm asking a question  "minorty thugs" lol but i'll engage with
				you.  Prejudice: **Prejudice** means preconceived opinion that is
				not based on reason or actual experience. The word comes from the
				[Latin](https://simple.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latin) "pre" (before)
				and "judge". It most often refers to an opinion about a person or
				group of people. The word "prejudice" is often used when people
				dislike another group of people that are different from them. They
				may decide they do not like them because of their
				[skin](https://simple.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skin) color (this is
				"racial prejudice"),
				[religion](https://simple.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religion)
				(religious prejudice) or
				[nationality](https://simple.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nationality).
				These are all serious prejudices which can lead to [discrimination
				](https://simple.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrimination),
				[hatred](https://simple.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hatred) or even
				[war](https://simple.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/War).   Power: i assume
				what is meant by "power" is systemic and structural power, not
				necessarily who has bigger muscles or who is beating who. What
				group maintains the dominant hegemonic position? That would be the
				most "powerful" group in this context. You can learn about
				Hegemony here:[https://www.britannica.com/topic/hegemony](https://
				www.britannica.com/topic/hegemony)  .  and no, "minority thugs"
				beating a white person is not racism, because those actions were
				not motivated by racial bigotry and prejudice, or let's say they
				simply want to rob him, or the white person in question did
				something to warrant a beating. You did not specify if said
				beating was motivated by racial animosity.  If a white person
				beats a black person, for reasons other than racial animosity, it
				is simply a beating.   My statement was meant to be a question to
				u/TychoCelchuuu what i'm trying to decipher here is if this is a
				semantic difference.

					comment score: 1 | u/nixyboy
					>"minorty thugs" lol Spelling is hard >Power: i assume what is
					meant by "power" is systemic and structural power, not
					necessarily who has bigger muscles or who is beating who. What
					group maintains the dominant hegemonic position? That would be
					the most "powerful" group in this context. Would a high school
					full of black people be the dominant group if theres one white
					kid getting his ass kicked for being white?  >and no, "minority
					thugs" beating a white person is not racism, because those
					actions were not motivated by racial bigotry and prejudice, or
					let's say they simply want to rob him, or the white person in
					question did something to warrant a beating. You did not specify
					if said beating was motivated by racial animosity. ​Yeah I meant
					racially. I'd say White thugs beating up a minority is worse but
					minority beating up a white is still extreme racism

	comment score: 10 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	As the other user has correctly pointed out, this is a recurrent
	question. Quite understandably, considering how widespread it has
	become on the Internet, and thus it has become part of popular
	science. However, I do have some reservations about many of the
	responses given in the past, as they often appear to be partial. A
	complete answer to your question and to similar questions should
	clearly highlight that how racism is defined and operationalized
	depends on several factors, including: field/discipline,
	subfield/discipline, specific theoretical perspectives, the specific
	object and goal of a study, the specific scholar. I would also
	suggest the usefulness of understanding the recent history of racism
	as a scientific object. There is no widespread consensus that racism
	equals power plus prejudice in the social sciences, at least not like
	the Internet makes it appear. For illustration, if you take a
	psychological or social psychological study about racism, it is
	likely that racism is either explicitly or implicitly construed as
	racial prejudice. In which case, the concept of 'power' (which can
	also have several definitions) is neither a necessary condition nor a
	sufficient condition. An important and influential researcher in this
	context is Gordon Allport, author of [The Nature of
	Prejudice](https://archive.org/details/TheNatureOfPrejudice/). But
	let's go in order.  --- Many authors concur that our contemporary
	understanding of racism began in the 1930s. According to [Banton](htt
	ps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/9781118663202.wberen151)
	"the concept of racism dates only from the 1930" even though there
	are "practices in earlier centuries that [some historians] consider
	racist". Before, there was what is called [scientific
	racism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_racism), the belief
	that *scientifically* there exist different human races. In that
	period, racism was particularly meaningful in the [context of Nazism]
	(https://www.etymonline.com/word/racist?ref=etymonline_crossreference
	), as [Nazi authors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nazism_and_race)
	were invested in developing these ideas. As [Webster et
	al.](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/jhbs.20442)
	explain: >Nonetheless, we acknowledge that **“prejudice” generally
	became synonymous with racial and ethnic prejudices in the 1930s as
	the study of “race psychology”** (studies that investigated and
	maintained white superiority) **evolved into studies on race
	prejudice** (Samelson, 1978), that is, **until other group prejudices
	were astutely examined starting in the 1950s** (e.g., religious,
	gender, and sexual prejudices; see Allport, 1954/1979, for early
	discussions on this work). Gordon Allport is an influential author,
	at least for psychologists. His book on [The Nature of
	Prejudice](https://archive.org/details/TheNatureOfPrejudice) is an
	important text in the history of the study of -isms and prejudice.
	His definition of racial or ethnic prejudice follows: >[A]n antipathy
	based upon a faulty and and inflexible generalization. It may be felt
	or expressed. It may be directed toward a group as a whole, or toward
	an individual because he is a member of that group. And racists "seem
	to be people who, out of their own anxieties, have manufactured the
	demon of race". Earlier in the book, he shares these illustrations of
	prejudice: >In Rhodesia, a white truck driver passed a group of idle
	natives and muttered, "They're lazy brutes". A few hours later he saw
	natives heaving two-hundred pounds sacks of grain onto a truck,
	singing in rythm to their work. "Savages," he grumbled. "What do you
	expect?". >In one of the West Indies it was customary at one time for
	natives to hold their noses conspicuously whenever they passed an
	American on the street. And in England, during the war, it was said,
	"The only trouble with Yanks is that they are over-paid, over-sexed,
	and over here." --- Therefore, prejudice can go in all directions and
	the definition of prejudice is not exclusive to certain social groups
	(higher social status, wealthier, etc.). It is understood, at least
	in psychology, that prejudice underlies -isms. Allport was not making
	an argument that racism is separate from racial (or ethnic)
	prejudice. To illustrate, I quote
	[Dion](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2003-04682-021): >**Prejudice**
	(i.e., **biased and usually negative attitudes toward social groups
	and their members**), **racism** (a **negatively oriented prejudice
	toward certain groups seen as biologically different and inferior**
	to one’s own), and discrimination (unfair behavior or unequal
	treatment accorded others on the basis of their group membership or
	possession of an arbitrary trait, such as skin color) have been
	favored topics of research and theorizing for many years by
	psychologists—especially social and personality psychologists—around
	the world. Of these three concepts, prejudice is perhaps the most
	central and important. **Prejudice underlies racism and is also
	believed to motivate acts of discrimination.**  To conclude, I quote
	[Renfrow and Howard](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-94
	-007-6772-0_17): >There has also been some backlash, with members of
	majority categories sometimes asserting a reverse sexism (toward
	men), reverse racism (toward Whites), and/or reverse ethnocentrism
	(toward, say, Anglos). **It is certainly the case that any human
	being learns biases as a part of the cultures and societies in which
	we are raised and live**. Women can be sexist; **people of color can
	be racist**. Indeed, one might argue that **any member of
	contemporary U.S. society is sexist, racist, and ethnocentric, also
	able-ist, age-ist, and so forth, because it would be virtually
	impossible not to be**. Social power relations structure how these
	biases are expressed and what influences they may or may not have.
	But individuals have agency; they – we – can actively become
	conscious of and work against such prejudicial stereotypes and
	identities (Devine, 1989) >**It is a social psychological truism that
	names and language matter.** As Richards ( 1997 ) notes, because
	language provides the terms in which we understand the social world,
	language is also a key arena in which attempts to alter those
	understandings are fought. **The terms used to describe the social
	systems we focus on in this chapter have at times been the focus of
	intense struggles. We attempt to use the terms preferred by the
	people and groups to which they refer, where that is ascertainable.
	It is important to note, however, that there is often considerable
	slippage**. “White” is a misnomer, but “Caucasian” is no better.
	“Black” has different connotations in the U.S. than in, for example,
	Brazil. “Straight” meant something quite different in the 1950s than
	it does now. We simply ask the reader to be aware of the
	insufficiencies of language. --- Racism defined as power plus
	prejudice came several years after the evolution of racism as an
	object of study concerning racial and ethnic prejudices, in a period
	of time characterized by societal upheaval (e.g. the Civil Rights
	Movement in the USA). As far as I am aware, it is agreed that this
	concept appeared around the 1970s in the context of scholarship on
	[anti-racist education](http://www.aclrc.com/racism-and-power):
	Patricia Bidol introduced the notion in her [book about racist
	awareness](https://www.worldcat.org/title/developing-new-
	perspectives-on-race-an-innovative-multi-media-social-studies-
	curriculum-in-racism-awareness-for-the-secondary-level/oclc/2845458)
	and Judy Katz popularized the concept in her book about [White Awaren
	ess](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/j.2164-4918.1977
	.tb04332.x) in which she explicitly defines racism in the following
	manner: >**It is important to push for the understanding that racism
	is** ***prejudice plus power*** **and that, therefore, Third World
	people cannot be racist against Whites in the United States.** Third
	World people **can be prejudiced against Whites**, but clearly they
	**do not have the power to enforce** that prejudice. Although
	participants may not at this point totally accept this view or feel
	comfortable with it, it is important to establish the concept as a
	working definition.

		comment score: 6 | u/Revue_of_Zero
		Before commenting on whether Bidol and Katz's definition is main
		definition used in the social sciences, and whether psychology is
		the odd duck out, let's also look at other disciplines. For example,
		as the concept of *scientific racism* suggests, racism can also be
		considered a structured belief or ideology. [Miles](https://books.go
		ogle.com/books/about/Racism_After_race_Relations.html?id=IgUAdOIFudU
		C), a sociologist, defined racism as such: >**Racism is a form of
		ideological signification** which constructs a social collectivity
		as a discrete and distinct, self-reproducing population by reference
		to certain (real or imagined) biological characteristics which are
		purported to be inherent, and which additional attributes the
		collectivity with other negatively evaluated (biological and/or
		cultural) characteristics. **Racism, therefore, attributes meaning
		to the human body**, either somatically or genetically, **in order
		to construct an Other which reproduces itself through historical
		time and space**.  Do be aware that his definition of racism as an
		ideology was not uncontroversial, as he himself has noted. A similar
		idea can actually be found in social psychology, specifically
		Sidanius and Pratto's [social dominance
		theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_dominance_theory) which
		is concerned with explaining the continued existence and support for
		hierarchies based on social groups. In their theorization, racism is
		explicitly conceptualized as a "myth" or "ideology" which
		legitimizes these hierarchies (and rapports of dominion and
		subordination). --- A similar conceptualization can be found in
		handbooks about anthropology. Per [Barnard and
		Spencer](https://www.abebooks.com/9780415285582/Encyclopedia-Social-
		Cultural-Anthropology-
		Routledge-0415285585/plp?cm_sp=plped-_-2-_-image): >Race resulted in
		**racism, the cultural and ideological formation that shapes
		perception and evaluation of self and others according to racial
		identity, which is institutionalized in both interpersonal and
		larger-scale behavioural social orders**. Racism has met resistance
		and contestation at many levels, from community-based political
		struggle to academic scholarship. **Racism in its regional, national
		and local forms is seen by some analysts as many different racisms,
		each culturally interpretable in its own terms**.  Likewise, per
		[Sculpin and DeCorse](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/30791
		8485_Anthropology_A_Global_Perspective_8th_edition): >These [racial]
		categories have often been used throughout human history as the
		basis and justification **of racism, the belief that some races are
		superior to others.** Racism can often result in discrimination and
		hostile acts toward different peoples and societies (Fredrickson
		2002). If racism is conceptualized as an ideology, specifically an
		ideology embedded into institutions, then anthropology perhaps
		grapples with racism in terms of prejudice plus power, just like
		Bidol and Katz, even though the term 'power' does not appear in my
		two examples. Conversely, ideologies do not always have power behind
		them. Hitler held racist ideologies beforehand, and gained power
		afterwards (although we can then argue that his contemporary society
		was already antisemitic to begin with, but to a relatively lesser
		degree). --- Generally speaking, I would not suggest that the
		specific definition of racism equal prejudice plus power is the
		standard definition in the social sciences, except for those sub-
		disciplines characterized by radical or critical approaches. For
		illustration, see Horton's explicit use of the term 'power' in his
		arguments for a [*critical* demography](https://www.albany.edu/~hdh/
		criticaldemography/Toward.html) >**The population and structural
		change thesis is a theoretical perspective that facilitates the
		incorporation of racism as a variable of analysis in racial and
		ethnic demography. There is ample historical evidence to support
		this argument**. For instance, in the case of migration, racism
		played a role in the enslavement and importation of Africans, the
		removal of Native Americans from their lands, the repatriation of
		Mexicans during the Great Depression and the internment of Japanese
		citizens World War II (Daniels 1990). In the case of mortality, the
		conventional and germ warfare waged against the Native Americans,
		the tens of millions of African slaves “lost” in the middle passage
		and deaths from the brutality of slavery and lynching during the Jim
		Crow era certainly are relevant here. Finally, on the topic of
		fertility and family structure, the wholesale rape of black women,
		the breeding of slaves and the decimation of slave families must
		likewise be acknowledged (Franklin and Moss, Jr. 1994). In all of
		the above demographic events, racism played a central role (Ture and
		Hamilton 1992). **The common thread is the power that the white
		population had to exploit and control minority populations for its
		own gains** (Fredrickson 1981). --- Putting aside whether the author
		is inspired and informed by more radical or critical traditions, it
		is important to consider the level of analysis (as made clear, for
		example, by Social dominance theory). In certain fields, it makes
		more sense (and there are historical and cultural reasons) to study
		racism as something the majority-in-power does to the vulnerable,
		marginalized and/or stigmatized minorities. In other fields, it
		makes less sense. (Working) definitions and conceptualizations
		therefore vary, in any case.  *In fine*, as you can see, there are
		several alternatives for different approaches or topics of interest
		(and this is not exhaustive, especially if we also get into the fact
		authors can also explicitly use and conceptualize terms such as
		"structural racism", "institutional racism", "systemic racism"). ---
		P.S. There can also be important differences in conceptualization
		and definitions between regions. Although the concept of racism as
		prejudice plus power might be more or less familiar in the US, that
		is not necessarily true, or as true, in continental Europe (where
		'race' as a concept and as a variable are not apprehended or used in
		the same manner).

	comment score: -11 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 11 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: -6 | u/None
			[removed]

				comment score: 4 | u/None
				[removed]

					comment score: 0 | u/None
					[removed]

						comment score: 2 | u/None
						[removed]

							comment score: 1 | u/None
							[removed]

								comment score: 1 | u/None
								[removed]

						comment score: 1 | u/None
						[removed]

							comment score: 1 | u/None
							[removed]

					comment score: -5 | u/None
					[removed]

				comment score: 1 | u/MoralMidgetry
				> No need for academic references, In this subreddit, social
				science sources are **always** required for answers. Thank you.

		comment score: 1 | u/MoralMidgetry
		> 1. All claims in top level comments must be supported by citations
		to relevant social science sources. No lay speculation. If your
		answer is not based on social science or you cannot support your
		claims with citations, please do not comment here. Thank you.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 15 | r/AskFeminists | u/Kai_Jin | 9 comments | 2020-06-05 | https://redd.it/gx897u
POST TITLE: Am I (20M) being sexist if I voice discomfort about disparaging marks towards men?
(I'll quickly clarify the title: by 'voice discomfort' I mean to answer when I was specifically asked, rather than to just express how I feel about it, etc. whenever it happens.)
Hi! This is my first post and sorry if similar topics have been answered before - I opted for a new post so I can capture the details. I'm really just wondering on what people think about this since it has really stuck with me and I've been reflecting a lot as a result:
**Context**  
Before the pandemic, I was seeing a girl I met at University (a few months and it didn't work out but it ended amicably). One of the days we were hanging out at my place with three of my housemates (female) and they frequently commented on things like the male character in a film (The Quiet Place - I recommend it, btw!) being useless and stupid because he's a man, and me not understanding why he's useless because I'm also man, etc. Since this is a Reddit post, I don't want to paint them in a bad light: I could tell they didn't mean anything negative by it and it seemed like they were kind of having a good time and bouncing off each other. Similar things happened frequently with this girl during the time we were seeing each other, but to the point.
Later that night, she asked what was bothering me since she could tell something was on my mind (I was taking longer than usual to fall asleep). I explained that I felt a bit weird and didn't really like when she/my housemates would often make negative remarks about me or my other housemate (the other guy in the house) and attribute when we messed up (less jokey examples) to being male. We had a messy argument about it which we resolved over the course of a few hours. The next morning I felt uncomfortable about it so we talked some more and were both put at ease.
**My Questions**  
What I'm asking about are the things she said that really stuck with me:
I said (approx) that I can only sympathize with the effects of sexism against women (she said that I didn't understand because I'm a man) but that I'm only responsible for myself / not how other men act and have acted in the past.  
She said (approx) that I need to take responsibility and that I don't get to complain about those kinds of comments since the oppression of women now (and historically) is so much worse.
I said something like how I would completely accept something like that if it were because of something I was responsible for and could appreciate the motivation but that it didn't make sense to me as to why they should be directed at me if I try my best to be better (and would call myself a feminist / act against sexism). She said that it might not be rational but that I should just trust that she knows that it's the case and that I was being a 'not-all-men bitch'.
Obviously I am writing this and it's reliant on my memory but I've done my best to give a fair account of what actually happened rather than being butt-hurt because she called me a bitch, lol.
Apologies that this is a long ping-pong of a post but I figured that asking here might be a good idea since maybe this has flagged up something in myself (like an implicit bias or way of thinking) that I need to identify and work on. **My questions are essentially just whether this way of thinking is something I should try to avoid (even if it doesn't make sense to me) or that my behavior is the kind of thing that contributes to sexism and works against feminist progress.**
Thanks!

	comment score: 12 | u/chloapsoap
	I think you’re doing your due diligence just fine by acknowledging
	historical oppression and understanding the role it plays in this
	situation However, I don’t think you’re wrong for feeling
	uncomfortable about these jokes. They’re crass and it’s
	understandable that they would bother you. As you said, you aren’t
	personally responsible for the way things are.  Your options here are
	to call them out and ask them to tone it down, or find a way to not
	let it bother you. You know your relationship dynamics better than I
	do, so only you can decide how to approach it

		comment score: 2 | u/Kai_Jin (OP)
		Thanks for your answer - being mindful of context has been helpful
		to put discomfort into perspective so I'll stay on that tack

	comment score: 8 | u/noonecar3s
	Only if you're not doing the same when your bros make 'locker talk'
	about women.

		comment score: 4 | u/Kai_Jin (OP)
		Calling out 'boy talk' contributed to having to finding alternative
		accommodation and I have no regrets (except that the current house
		is very cold)

			comment score: 4 | u/noonecar3s
			Really glad to hear that! You're definitely not sexist for voicing
			your discomfort in this situation, you're holding both men and
			women to the same standards when it comes to disparaging the other
			gender.

		comment score: -1 | u/None
		[deleted]

			comment score: 2 | u/noonecar3s
			Looking for arguments is tired and cliché.  My point still stands,
			it's only sexist if you're not calling out guys for the same
			behavior.

				comment score: 1 | u/tooluckyforowngood
				Ah, apologies, thought you said, "only if you're *doing* the
				same," that's my b. Thought you were doing some kinda "Where did
				you get the right to be offended from," type thing, that's my
				misinterpretation.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to posted questions must come from feminists and
		reflect a feminist perspective. Non-feminists may participate in
		nested comments only. Comment removed; you won't get another
		warning.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 17 | r/AskSocialScience | u/10z20Luka | 23 comments | 2020-06-03 | https://redd.it/gvy139
POST TITLE: Is the core mandate of the #BlackLivesMatter movement statistically justified? This /r/askscience post is filled with many seemingly convincing arguments claiming that the police bias against Black Americans is overstated. Could someone authoritatively speak to these statistics?
Drawn from this post: https://old.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/gvc7k9/black_lives_matter/
>Source from the Department of Justice, look at table 12. The number of White violent offenders in 2018 was 2,669,900, White people were 62.3% of the population. The number of Black violent offenders was 1,155,670, Black people were 12% of the population. If Black people are that much overrepresented as violent offenders based on data from the survey of victims of crimes (data from the FBI also shows vast overrepresentation), then how is it racist for the police to be more likely to kill (justifiably or not) Black suspects?
Another post: 
>Police killings in the USA for 2018:
>White: 451 killed / 5.3M arrests = .008%
>Black: 229 killed / 2.1M arrests = .011%
>Hispanic: 165 killed / 1.2M arrests = .014%
>Black people are about 10 percent more likely to be killed during an arrest than the average. Perhaps that needs improvement, but it hardly constitutes a crisis in and of itself. The bigger problem is that black people are twice as likely to get arrested.
A third:
>Blacks are 2.5 times more likely to die from police because they disproportionately commit more violent crimes. FBI crime statistics from 2017 show that blacks committed 37.5% of violent crimes. Blacks make up 13.4% of the population, yet they are 2.79 times more likely to commit a violent crime. Hispanic/Latino individuals make up 18.3% of the population and commit 23.5% of violent crimes, so they are 1.28 times more likely to commit a violent crime.
**All the statistics in these comments appear to be accurate, but I believe I am missing something.** I have no doubt that the conditions of poverty and the legacies of systemic racism contribute to the contemporary behavior of some boys and men within the black community (media stereotypes, broken homes, poor education/nutrition, alienated families, low-income housing, etc.). **Nor do I believe that there is any genetic basis for any of these circumstances.** I'm sure it's all socialization. I'm just trying to get to the heart of police brutality against Black Americans specifically.

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 18 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	[Check this thread which was posted a few hours ago, and the list of
	other threads you will find in my reply.](https://www.reddit.com/r/As
	kSocialScience/comments/gvs2le/are_black_crime_rate_statistics_signif
	icantly/) This question, and variations of this question, are a
	regular feature here, so I encourage reading what has been said in
	the past. In most cases, past replies already addressed the
	interpretation and meaning of available data. Also consider [this
	recent thread on police violence](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialS
	cience/comments/gtkc3x/what_are_the_causes_of_law_enforcement_to_comm
	it/), which highlights how criticism regarding the police
	relationship with communities, and their use of force, is old and
	persistent (i.e. it did not begin a few years ago nor did it begin
	with Black Lives Matter). --- **[Edit]** Also, "high" and "low" are
	ultimately subjective judgments. Are 100 deaths a lot? 1000? 10000?
	Sure, there is a threshold where most people are likely to agree a
	number is high, but we can also expect differences based on their
	point of reference and personal sensibilities. Instead, put into
	comparison the number of people killed by police in the US compared
	with the rest of the world: * [By the numbers: US police kill more in
	days than other countries do in
	years](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/jun/09/the-counted-
	police-killings-us-vs-other-countries) * [Why do American cops kill
	so many compared to European cops?](https://theconversation.com/why-
	do-american-cops-kill-so-many-compared-to-european-cops-49696)  *
	[American police shoot and kill far more people than their peers in
	other
	countries](https://www.vox.com/identities/2016/8/13/17938170/us-
	police-shootings-gun-violence-homicides) **[Edit 2]** I believe it
	may also be informative to check [this thread on civil unrest](https:
	//www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/gub5a5/sorry_for_yet_ano
	ther_riot_post_but_are_there_any/), as to understand what contributes
	to events such as those being currently witnessed in America. In my
	reply, I also comment on how evaluations of events such as riots also
	depend of the eye of the beholder.

		comment score: 4 | u/10z20Luka (OP)
		Thank you, these are some great links, I intend to do a deep dive.

			comment score: 3 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			My pleasure :) I am aware it may take some effort to wade through
			the links, i.e. "deep dive" is very appropriate, but...as other
			users have noted, it is a complex web of moving parts. Take one
			away and the message will be distorted. Think of [misleading
			graphs](https://www.statisticshowto.com/misleading-graphs/).

	comment score: 14 | u/ariamis72
	I recommend seeing the [research library on race & ethnicity at the
	Prison Policy Initiative](https://www.prisonpolicy.org/research/race_
	and_ethnicity/), which collects research and reports on racialized
	differences related to imprisonment, police violence, and criminal
	punishment. There's no quick answer to why the Black Lives Matter
	movement is empirically justified, but the collection of research on
	that page offers a sense for the type of disparity that currently
	exists. Related to this, the conversations on Reddit tend to neglect
	the [massive racial wealth gap in the U.S.](https://drum.lib.umd.edu/
	bitstream/handle/1903/24590/racialwealthgapbrief.pdf?sequence=1).
	Black Lives Matter isn't just about police violence; it's also about
	Black people in the United States tending to have disproportionately
	poor access to resources, which contributes to the larger cycle of
	injustice and inequity. From the [Black Lives Matter
	website](https://blacklivesmatter.com/what-we-believe/): "Four years
	ago, what is now known as the Black Lives Matter Global Network began
	to organize. It started out as a chapter-based, member-led
	organization whose mission was to build local power and to intervene
	when violence was inflicted on Black communities by the state and
	vigilantes. In the years since, we’ve committed to struggling
	together and to imagining and creating a world free of anti-
	Blackness, where every Black person has the social, economic, and
	political power to thrive." Overall, understanding how racism in the
	U.S. works today takes more than any Reddit thread is going to offer.
	Looking at only a handful of surface-level statistics paints a
	misleading picture of why people are mad, what needs to change, and
	the trends suggested by the larger body of evidence and
	interpretation.

		comment score: 2 | u/10z20Luka (OP)
		Thank you for the comment, although I must confess that I was indeed
		hopeful that there would be, somewhere, the aforementioned "quick
		answer" I was looking for. At some level, I am unwilling to invest
		much more of my time investigating the immensely complex and nuanced
		issue of race in America.  However, I respect and understand your
		position, as well as your reluctance to provide any digestible
		"talking-points" to placate the request of a suburban white
		bystander.

			comment score: 11 | u/timothyjwood
			I can tell you that one misinterpretation in what you present is
			saying "gets arrested more" equals "commits more crimes". For
			example, blacks are [3.6 times more
			likely](https://www.aclu.org/news/criminal-law-reform/a-tale-of-
			two-countries-racially-targeted-arrests-in-the-era-of-marijuana-
			reform/) to be arrested for marijuana than whites, though both use
			at about the same rate.  So the arrest rate may itself be affected
			by bias in law enforcement, and not an accurate measure of
			criminality.   Even then, doing back-of-the-envelope math on the
			numbers you gave, blacks make up about a quarter of deaths in
			custody, while being about 12% of the population, and so are over-
			represented by a factor of two. One might say that's due to a
			higher rate of criminality, but you can't use arrest rate to
			demonstrate that, because they're not the same thing.

				comment score: 3 | u/10z20Luka (OP)
				Excellent example, precisely what I am looking for, thank you.

					comment score: 2 | u/__crackers__
					There's also a very important hidden variable being ignored when
					you just compare crime rates among black and white people:
					poverty. There's [a pretty strong link between socioeconomic
					status and crime](http://critcrim.org/barak.htm), and poverty
					rates are 2+ times higher amongst blacks.

				comment score: 1 | u/VerySecretCactus
				The ACLU piece says that blacks and whites use marijuana at the
				same rate without explaining what that means exactly. Their link
				leads to another article which leads to another web page with this
				110-page pdf: https://www.aclu.org/report/tale-two-countries-
				racially-targeted-arrests-era-marijuana-reform On page 7, you see
				that "Finding #2" claims "comparable usage rates" but I'm not sure
				where that's shown. At this point I got bored and just looked it
				up and found this paper:
				https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3419382/. I scrolled
				through quickly but couldn't find what I was looking for. I've
				heard it claimed that most of these "comparable use" claims are
				based on misleading questions, like "have you used X in the past
				year," whereas questions like "have you used X in the past week"
				lead to larger disparities. Other vaguer claims are that the
				racial distribution of *overt* or, better phrased, "more easily
				catchable" instances of drug use are not distributed by race in
				proportion to overall use. Do you know these statistics?

				comment score: 1 | u/Markdd8
				>but you can't use arrest rate to demonstrate that, because
				they're not the same thing. How can you exclude the arrest rate,
				with black people accounting for 27.2% of all arrests and 37.5% of
				violent crime arrests?  [The FBI link
				again](https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2017/crime-in-
				the-u.s.-2017/tables/table-43).     So you're saying this higher
				arrest rate is almost exclusively due to bias in arresting (not
				more crime), with police selectively targeting blacks?  The
				situation you cite with marijuana arrests does support this
				contention, but what do we make of the 37.5% violent crimes
				arrests? Marijuana cases are often only a citation, not something
				that would result in any offender--white or black--getting in a
				confrontation with police.    Whereas we should deduce that
				*violent crime offenders of any race* would be more likely to be
				combative with police attempting an arrest.  Which in turn might
				result in some instances of being killed by police.

					comment score: 3 | u/timothyjwood
					I'm making a methodological argument, not a political one.  As an
					example, if you're trying to measure... say... do mommy and daddy
					have a favorite child, Tammy or Sammy, or do they treat them both
					equally? You can't say "They treat them equally, Sammy is just
					worse behaved, as evidenced by the fact that mommy and daddy put
					him in time-out more often." Well, if Tammy actually was the
					favorite child, then they would probably be less likely to put
					her in time-out, even if they were equally well-behaved. You
					would have to find a measure of behavior that is independent of
					the influence of the parents' preferential treatment.  "Time-out"
					measures the "rate of punishment" as mediated through the
					perceptions of the parents, and not a direct measure of bad
					behavior, which might be better measured by something like
					getting in trouble at school, which is more independent of the
					parents themselves. In this case, when you are looking at arrest
					rate (independent variable) to compare the proportion of deaths
					(dependent variable), racial bias among law enforcement is a
					[confounding
					variable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Confounding), because it
					affects both the independent and dependent variables. In order to
					measure bias, you need a measure of criminality that is
					independent of the influence of law enforcement.

						comment score: 1 | u/Markdd8
						> In order to measure bias, you need a measure of criminality
						that is independent of the influence of law enforcement. Right
						and is this possible? To get such a measurement?  Perhaps not.
						This whole  topic regarding black people and the issues
						surrounding them involves a lot of *chicken-or-egg* questions.
						Some basic factors: 1) Black people are disproportionately
						involved in crime, relative to their being 13% of the U.S.
						population. 2) Black people are disproportionately poor, with
						many living in squalid neighborhoods.  (Such environments hinder
						advancement.) 3) Black people are subject to widespread racism
						(notoriously difficult to measure). 4) The black population as a
						whole is subject to higher levels of **both** outcomes and
						behaviors that can be labeled *disadvantageous to success:*
						unemployment, fatherless families,  poor parenting, lack of
						eduction, lack of *interest in* education, etc.  This 2019
						article from our dissident criminologists elaborates: [Behavior
						Matters -- Why some people spend their lives in poverty and
						social dysfunction](https://www.city-journal.org/behavioral-
						poverty) 5) Any racial group that is disadvantaged by racism,
						can rise above those disadvantages *to some extent* by responses
						such as hard work (Asian example below), sobriety, and other
						self improvement measures. So what conclusions can be drawn?  Is
						the plight of black Americans almost entirely due to racism and
						systemic oppression?  Is some of it their own making?  **What
						are the relative weights of each factor?**    I'm hardly the
						person to offer an overarching opinion.  Some of the best minds
						in America have worked on this on-going problem for years.  The
						topic is marked by much debate.  I'm just an observer, but I'll
						repeat something I've said several times: Social science's
						ability to provide precise measurements on these subjects is
						*limited.*    - - - - From PEW. [The Rise of Asian
						Americans](https://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2012/06/19/the-rise-
						of-asian-americans/).   I've massaged the text; it has an
						emphasis that PEW did not put on it, but I do not think my
						version is overly misleading. >>A century ago, most Asian
						Americans were low-skilled, low-wage laborers crowded into
						ethnic enclaves and targets of official
						discrimination...(today)...Asian Americans are the highest-
						income, best-educated and fastest-growing racial group in the
						United States...Asian Americans have a pervasive belief in the
						rewards of hard work. Nearly seven-in-ten (69%) say people can
						get ahead if they are willing to work hard, a view shared by a
						somewhat smaller share of the American public as a whole (58%).
						And fully 93% of Asian Americans describe members of their
						country of origin group as “very hardworking”; just 57% say the
						same about Americans as a whole. (Let's not overlook that
						America put some 120,000 Asian Americans in concentration camps
						for 2-3 years during WWII.) PEW wrote this in 2012; given our
						current view that comparing races is bad form, I don't know if
						PEW would write the "pervasive belief" today.  Highlighting one
						race's achievements and positive attributes clearly implies
						others are not up to the mark.  It's implied disparagement.
						Excerpt from the *Behavior* article: >More than 50 years of
						social-sciences evidence demonstrates that behavior is highly
						predictive of many important life outcomes. Children who are
						temperamental, fussy, and aggressive often cause their parents
						to withdraw affection and to limit supervision, which leads to
						further bad behavior later on, along with subsequent struggles
						and frustration. Adolescents who verbally accost or threaten
						their schoolteachers are more likely to be suspended or
						expelled, as well as to spend less time studying, working on
						homework, and attending classes. And adults who engage in crime
						are the same ones who not only frequently end up in jail and
						prison, of course, but also remain voluntarily unemployed, and
						often find themselves at the bottom of the economic ladder.
						Behavior is predictive from one setting to the next, and
						consequences snowball. The body of research linking bad behavior
						to negative and cumulative consequences is remarkably robust,
						extends across countries, and has been replicated across
						academic disciplines with diverse samples, methodologies, and
						analytical techniques.... >Many thinkers and activists on the
						left, however, prefer to disconnect an individual’s behavior
						from his lot in life...From the Left’s point of view, bad
						behavior, at least by certain favored groups, should be ignored,
						or, if not ignored, then explained away by diabolical social
						forces—poverty, in particular—that cause the bad behavior.  A
						key debate in the topic:  *Why the Plight of Black
						Communities?*:   **Behavior  vs.  Racism and Systemic
						Marginalization**

					comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
					/u/timothyjwood provides an excellent summary-by-analogy of the
					problem with official crime statistics, but for a more
					'technical' breakdown, see [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskSoc
					ialScience/comments/gvs2le/are_black_crime_rate_statistics_signif
					icantly/). Also see [further below](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskS
					ocialScience/comments/gvy139/is_the_core_mandate_of_the_blacklive
					smatter/fst41d7/) for specific critique to one of the more widely
					cited studies which did not find racial bias for 'lethal' use of
					force (although it did find bias for 'non-lethal' use of force)
					and which illustrates the problem of confounding.

			comment score: 5 | u/Markdd8
			Good OP.  Answers on this sub are always heavily weighted towards
			academic analysis, sometimes hard to get a take away.  And this is
			a highly complex and charged topic. The AskScience post was
			valuable, with FBI link for 2017 that cites black people as 37.5%
			of violent crime arrestees and 27.2% of all arrests.  Note the
			difference between arrests and *convictions* (though the percentage
			difference might *not* be profound). Your OP writes: "blacks
			committed 37.5% of violent crimes." For many people, the statistics
			provide little support to defenders of Law Enforcement; the
			response is often that racism, poverty and oppression cause the
			higher crime levels in black communities.   Another factor that is
			highly germane:  *Do black people resist arrest more?  Are they
			more unruly/combative when interacting with police?* This is highly
			relevant to the incidence of police brutality on black people.  I
			googled the topic at some length, but data is scanty -- and would
			likely primarily be assertions by the police and therefore subject
			to discrediting as bias.  All in all, a difficult topic.

				comment score: 3 | u/Revue_of_Zero
				There is research on whether the characteristics and behavior of
				suspects or offenders are associated with use-of-force. This line
				of research often uses the term 'demeanor', which is commonly
				found to be an important factor. Here is a non-exhaustive
				selection: ---- [Worden and Shepard](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.c
				om/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1745-9125.1996.tb01196.x) replicated older
				findings about the importance of demeanor in 1996 using
				observational data of several police-citizen encounters. [Worden
				et al.](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0022427896033
				003003)'s commentary  "On the Meaning and Measurement of Suspects'
				Demeanor Toward the Police" suggested that the apprehension of
				demeanor may be conditional and [Alpert et al.](https://journals.s
				agepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1098611103260507)'s 2004 study
				highlighted how police-civilian encounters are both interactive
				and asymmetrical.  --- [Nix et al.](https://www.tandfonline.com/do
				i/abs/10.1080/07418825.2017.1334808) published in 2017 an article
				describing two randomized experiments in whicch they examined
				"officers' perceived importance of exercising procedural justice."
				Which, as they note, "may not be the same as their actual intent
				to exercise procedural justice in real world interactions with
				citizens (but see Pogarsky, 2004)." Their conclusions: >In
				conclusion, it is worth repeating that **our analyses did not find
				a significant race effect either on officers’ perceptions of the
				threat of violence or their perceptions of the importance of
				exercising procedural justice.** This is encouraging because
				minority communities and those that have experienced high-profile
				police shootings certainly deserve and need procedural justice—and
				as our results indicate, police do not appear to be less willing
				to exercise procedural justice based simply on race. Indeed, in
				both of our experiments the coefficients were positive, although
				non-significant, suggesting that if anything, officers believe it
				is more important to exercise procedural justice with black
				suspects. **Our analyses do, however, indicate that respect
				mattered to the officers in both samples.** Procedural justice
				training should focus on how officers can exercise greater
				patience with suspects who do not immediately comply or show
				deference. That said, I would stress the terms 'perception' and
				'willingness' according to their sample of police officers.
				Another study by [Nix et al.](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/
				abs/10.1111/1745-9133.12269) in 2017 analyzing 900 police fatal
				shootings found evidence for **threat perception failure**, which
				they concluded to be evidence for implicit bias. To quote part of
				the review of literature found in the former article: >A lengthy
				roster of empirical studies has shown that black citizens in
				particular are more likely to have force used against them, and
				are more likely to be stopped, searched, and arrested than their
				white counterparts (Engel & Calnon, 2004; Hurst, Frank, & Lee
				Browning, 2000; Kochel et al., 2011; Robin, 1963; Terrill &
				Mastrofski, 2002). **Nix, Campbell, Byers, and Alpert (2017)
				demonstrated that relative to white suspects fatally shot by the
				police in 2015, black suspects were more than two times as likely
				to have been unarmed. Ross (2015, p. 6) reports similar results,
				finding that “the median probability across counties of being
				{black, unarmed, and shot by police} is3.49 times the probability
				of being {white, unarmed, and shot by police}.”** --- [Morgan et a
				l.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S00472352203
				00684) published this year a study of inmate self-reports. They do
				so because: >It is important to emphasize that **much, though not
				all, of the research examining the determinants of police use of
				force is based on official data sources conducted by, or in
				conjunction with, multiple criminal justice agencies** such as the
				Phoenix Use of Force Project, the Police-Public Contact Survey,
				the Police Services Study, and the Project on Policing
				Neighborhoods (Bolger, 2015). On the one hand, studies based on
				data provided by such organizations are useful because they give
				insight into departmental initiatives and the subsequent decision-
				making processes which guide officers during the course of their
				work;on the other hand, **these sources can be limited if they
				focus solely on the perceptions and actions of criminal justice
				agencies and their employees, and do not account for those of the
				citizens or suspects with whom the officers interact.** They
				confirmed the importance of noncompliance and combative
				resistance, however they also found that race, sex, age and mental
				health history of suspects are also associated with use of force,
				"above and beyond the influence of resistance." --- This line of
				research does show that police officers appear to take into
				account demeanor, and that it is an important explanatory factor.
				However, police-citizen encounters are both interactional and
				situational (it is also important to not assume the likelihood of
				these encounters are the same even when controlling for
				differential criminal involvement) and that the evaluation of
				demeanor is also in the eye of the beholder(s). Regardless of what
				studies on demeanor find, it is also a fact that non-white
				citizens who are unarmed have a higher risk of being shot than
				white citizens who are unarmed. On the topic of perceptions,
				threat evaluation, etc. [this Science news
				article](https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/meet-
				psychologist-exploring-unconscious-bias-and-its-tragic-
				consequences-society) about [Jennifer
				Eberhardt](https://web.stanford.edu/~eberhard/about-jennifer-
				eberhardt.html) may be interesting to read.

	comment score: 2 | u/samiairbender
	https://scholar.harvard.edu/fryer/publications/empirical-analysis-
	racial-differences-police-use-force Evidence of bias in the use of
	non-lethal force: 50% higher for African Americans and Hispanics

		comment score: 2 | u/VerySecretCactus
		> This paper explores racial diﬀerences in police use of force. On
		non-lethal uses of force, blacks and Hispanics are more than ﬁfty
		percent more likely to experience some form of force in interactions
		with police. Adding controls that account for important context and
		civilian behavior reduces, but cannot fully explain, these
		disparities. **On the most extreme use of force –oﬃcer-involved
		shootings – we ﬁnd no racial diﬀerences in either the raw data or
		when contextual factors are taken into account.** We argue that the
		patterns in the data are consistent with a model in which police
		oﬃcers are utility maximizers, a fraction of which have a preference
		for discrimination, who incur relatively high expected costs of
		oﬃcer-involved shootings. Shootings don't show bias, according to
		this analysis? That's somewhat surprising since shootings are often
		heavily focused on by the media.

			comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			A recent paper (2020) by political scientists [Knox, Lowe and
			Mummolo](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/american-
			political-science-review/article/administrative-records-mask-
			racially-biased-policing/66BC0F9998543868BB20F241796B79B8) has
			criticized the method used by Fryer on grounds that it can
			underestimate, or even mask, racial disparities. The study has been
			criticized on methodological grounds by other researchers in the
			past: * Social epidemiologist
			[Feldman's](https://scholar.harvard.edu/jfeldman/blog/roland-fryer-
			wrong-there-racial-bias-shootings-police); * Economist
			[Sethi](https://rajivsethi.blogspot.com/2016/07/police-use-of-
			force-notes-on-study.html); Also see this [Vox
			article](https://www.vox.com/2016/7/11/12149468/racism-police-
			shootings-data), this [Washington Post
			article](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-
			watch/wp/2016/07/14/why-its-impossible-to-calculate-the-percentage-
			of-police-shootings-that-are-legitimate/) and this [Snopes
			article](https://www.snopes.com/news/2016/07/15/harvard-study-
			officer-involved-shootings/) (which also makes comments on the
			previous two opinion pieces) on the study.

				comment score: 2 | u/VerySecretCactus
				> In this article, we show that if police racially discriminate
				when choosing whom to investigate, analyses using administrative
				records to estimate racial discrimination in police behavior are
				statistically biased If I'm understanding this correctly, the
				claim is that commonly used statistics related to arrests and
				incidents are misleading because they don't take into account the
				potential tendency of police to more often *look into* black crime
				compared to white crime? Specifically that they are more likely to
				look into the type of crime that leads to shootings when the
				suspect is black?

					comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
					Yes to the first part. (Not sure if I am reading your second
					question correctly). The critique is that the analytical strategy
					employed by Fryer (among others) does not appropriately take into
					account what comes in between being Black and being attacked, a
					mediating variable which may itself be affected by 'race', i.e.
					being stopped (and investigated) ([see Figure 1
					here](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Administrative-
					Records-Mask-Racially-Biased-Knox-
					Lowe/75b81fd3e53db1679be5665bf7fe8dc10e220f22)). To quote their
					conclusion: >Regardless of which approach scholars pursue, **this
					article highlights the need for further careful research into the
					first stage of police-civilian interactions**—that is, **the
					process by which officers decide whether or not to stop and
					investigate an individual for a crime.** Or to quote Mummolo
					himself: "[If there's racial bias in police stops, estimates of
					bias using stop data are often wrong.](https://twitter.com/jonmum
					molo/status/1263494820879876098)"

				comment score: 2 | u/samiairbender
				Thank you. I will check these out.

					comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
					My pleasure :) **[Edit]** I forgot about [Ross et
					al.](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41599-018-0110-z)'s 2018
					paper which also reassessed Fryer's results, concluding against
					his original conclusions.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 13 | r/AskFeminists | u/Trwwyoge2 | 12 comments | 2020-01-23 | https://redd.it/et2djg
POST TITLE: Why is there still a pretty significant amount of fat shaming amongst feminists?
So other than being concerned about transphobes in feminist spaces; I'm also concerned... well, more annoyed at how often I also encounter body shaming.
I think fat shaming seems to be the most prevalent form of this, but I see it manifest in other ways as well. 
I've been told that this isn't a feminist issue and told by some others to take a sort of apathetical approach to it, but that doesn't feel right to do, I guess?? 
Minus the discussions about what causes obesity and what we as a society can do to prevent and treat it, why does this particular topic always devolve into a hostile, bullying free-for-all? People that are overweight or obese are still deserving of some basic level of respect and dignity as human beings, but it's both baffling and disheartening to see so many people dismiss that aspect of the issue.
A few years ago, I had a major injury which prevented me from being as active as I normally am and as a result, I got fairly chubby. It was awful to experience first-hand that sort of bias that so many people have towards bigger bodies. As I recovered, I became more active again and eventually lost the weight, but I quickly noticed the way people were treating me better! My best friend also happens to be obese, and I know she's dealt with discrimination and harassment because of her size. I'm very close to her, so the thought of others treating her like that infuriates me.
I feel like some people just think that an overweight or obese person existing is 'GlOrIfYiNg ObEsItY' and take the opportunity to launch into a stream of reasons as to why that person is unhealthy and why they don't have to respect them because of their size.
I know that the origin of fatphobia comes from a deeply racist and misogynistic history. So why do so many feminists ignore, or contribute to the bullying when there is a bigger push for the movement to be intersectional?

	comment score: 27 | u/Kasha-UK
	Because being a feminist doesn't stop you being prejudice or bias in
	other ways - same way we have racism in the LGBTQ+ community, ableism
	in anti-racism communities, etc.  Being aware of and against one form
	of oppression doesn't necessarily translate to awareness of other
	forms of oppression...I don't understand it personally, but that's
	what it comes down to. Feminism should be intersectional, but
	mainstream White Feminism™ isn't.

		comment score: -3 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 6 | u/raskolnikova
			put your effort into something better than this kind of boring ass
			trolling please

	comment score: 4 | u/Vaguely-witty
	I feel like, a lot of humans are kind of puritanical. Maybe it's
	America and it's foundings (Atwood has mused on it) and this is me
	being a self-centered white feminist. I do feel like however there is
	a yearning from humans to want to be mad at something that makes
	sense. we can become puritanical with our beliefs and our
	justifications and our moral outrage. We want to be mad at someone,
	to know who to protect ourselves from. This is [potentially hardwired
	into us, to an
	extent](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunbar%27s_number). If you
	don't know an outside tribe, they could make you sick. [Weird study
	once said that germaphobes are more likely to be
	Republican?](https://www.cracked.com/blog/4-creepy-things-that-
	secretly-control-your-personality/) This can be weaponized, [like the
	alt right and stochastic terrorism](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/L
	one_wolf_(terrorism)#Stochastic_terrorism) or like the left "eating
	itself" when it attacks people who have conflicting viewpoints.  Now
	take a step back from all of that charged stuff. People who are obese
	are considered "safe" targets from the media. You could be an asshole
	and be flat out rude, you can concern troll, etc. There isn't just
	one way to make fun of a fat person. And all that internalized self
	hate! Plus, it's not even something that you can give up cold turkey
	in the way that you could do with, say, tobacco.. most cases of
	obesity have multiple issues so you can't even give quippy response.
	So. People kinda brush past it for other hills to defend, I guess.

	comment score: 4 | u/Brookeofthenorth
	Which feminist spaces are you talking about? I've found that the only
	places you'll ever see fat-acceptence is in feminist spaces so I am
	curious where it is happening.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 3 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. There is nothing
		in this comment that reflects a feminist perspective and in looking
		at your post history I can’t find any positive proof that you speak
		from a place of knowledge of feminist theory and praxis. This
		comment is removed.

			comment score: 5 | u/bitchboy01
			I literally said I believe everyone deserves respect no matter
			what.. how is that not feminism? Just because I don't like seeing
			my loved ones eat themselves to death doesn't mean I'm not a
			feminist.

				comment score: 3 | u/oracular_duck
				I explained my reasoning. You can either accept it and stay and
				participate in discussion in nested comment chains (but not make
				direct replies) or you can keep arguing and have this turn into a
				ban. It’s entirely up to you.

				comment score: 2 | u/my600catlife
				My race has the highest rates of obesity in the country and I
				agree with you. It's not something to celebrate. It's killing us.
				I remember once upon a time when my fellow liberals actually
				wanted to do things like get better nutrition information in
				schools and grocery stores into food deserts. Now apparently any
				effort to encourage health is "fatphobia". I also looked at your
				profile and I don't see why the mod jumped to the conclusion
				you're not a feminist considering you're defending the pro-choice
				position and arguing why rape victims should be believed? Makes it
				seem like anyone who doesn't agree with one narrow view gets
				removed.

					comment score: 2 | u/bitchboy01
					Yea I totally agree dude like self love is great and all of
					you're being healthy about it. There is no problem with a little
					chub but obesity is a real problem and it takes lives.  I have no
					idea how they didn't think I was a feminist, but apparently this
					subreddit only allow opinions that fit directly into what they
					think. Obesity fricking kills and it's not something we should be
					celebrating same as anorexia isn't something we should celebrate.
					Health is the most important thing to living a long and happy
					life.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 14 | r/AskFeminists | u/Fawxhox | 8 comments | 2019-04-05 | https://redd.it/b9qzb1
POST TITLE: Feminist Literature for men on subconscious bias
So, I'm looking for a book or article, really whatever you got, dealing with like the subconcious ways men are sexist or dealing with subtle sexism and how to change that. I'm definitely a feminist and I try my best to both reflect that and not use it as a crutch to say "my work is done". However, I occasionally find myself thinking sexist things, I'd like to think it's usually just my base reaction and given a second I correct my thoughts, but I'm sure I miss it just as often. Any recommendations would be appreciated

	comment score: 2 | u/greengardenmoss
	One book about this that I thought was good is "3 Keys to Defeating
	Unconscious Bias: Watch, Think, Act." By Sondra Thiederman.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 9 | u/unic0de000
		Three-ish minutes in, I'm feeling like your objection, and this
		video, both conflate the factual question of whether a given "hidden
		motive" actually exists, with the epistemic question of whether it
		can be meaningfully interrogated in a specific way. It seems to me
		that if the dispute was as described, the narrator and the
		instructor of his psych training course are both being unreasonable
		- the instructor by insisting that someone's hidden motives are
		reliably discernible, and the narrator by insisting that if none are
		discernible, none exist. Those both strike me as nonsense.

			comment score: 1 | u/LickitySplit939
			That's not really what he's saying, and his point becomes better
			explained further in. He's saying the only way to interrogate
			subconscious bias is through observable instantiations. For
			example, if you were a sexist teacher, you might see yourself (or
			others might see you) giving boys preferential treatment. In that
			case, you need to acknowledge your bias and make a deliberate
			correction.  His point is that in many cases (perhaps the
			majority), people are identified as having bias in some form but
			with no corresponding behaviours. Later in the video, for example,
			he discusses cited examples where people who did poorly on the IAT
			(ie had supposedly high bias in some area) treated people from that
			group better than those with good IAT scores. However, if behaviour
			is ignored, then the IAT might indicate a subconscious bias in the
			less bias group that needs to be purged through therapy or some
			other kind of indoctrination.  >the instructor by insisting that
			someone's hidden motives are reliably discernible I'm not sure what
			your background is or how much time you spend on this sub, but
			that's a claim that I hear a lot from spaces like this one. [I
			replied to a thread just yesterday](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskFem
			inists/comments/b99zjr/potentially_sexist_behaviour_of_a_friend/ek3
			x65x/) where people were insisting something was sexist due to
			their hidden understanding of the subconscious mind.  >the narrator
			by insisting that if none are discernible, none exist Why is this
			nonsense? If someone never does anything to indicate they have a
			bias, on what basis are we to assume one exists anyway?

				comment score: 2 | u/unic0de000
				> Why is this nonsense? If someone never does anything to indicate
				they have a bias, on what basis **are we to assume one exists**
				anyway? You've done it again - swapped the factual question for
				the epistemic/empirical one. The possibility that you seem to have
				skipped over, is that a proposition is true *and we simply aren't
				to know it*. A bias exists, or it doesn't, and that is the case
				irrespective of what we assume. If you want me to agree that
				people should be less quick to assume they know what those biases
				are, I agree. But  I stress that people should be just as hesitant
				to assume they know what their biases *aren't.*

					comment score: 1 | u/LickitySplit939
					No, I understand you. I suppose in an abstract/epistemological
					sense that someone could have a bias that is never acted on. But
					in a practical sense that is a very dangerous way to think, which
					is the point of the video. A bias is a problem that requires a
					solution. Claiming people have a problem that even they cannot
					identify and with no evidence to suggest in exists through
					pseudoscientific interrogation of the 'subconscious' is a
					terrifying preposition to me. Insisting existence with no
					evidence is a religious tactic.

						comment score: 2 | u/unic0de000
						I don't quite think I agree that 'a bias is a problem that
						requires a solution.' I think this is only true if you imagine
						that human subjectivity is a flaw, that we are somehow 'broken'
						objective observers and that to shed bias is to 'fix' ourselves.
						I reject the premise outright; i see 'bias' as simply being the
						water we're swimming in. Some of my biases, when I uncover them
						through introspection, I find perfectly agreeable and worth
						embracing. When I try to imagine a 'bias-free' life, I imagine
						lying down and rotting, because there's no basis on which to
						prefer living over dying. eta: instead of saying 'a bias is a
						problem that requires a solution', I think I would prefer to
						say: 'an *unexamined* bias is a mystery that deserves
						exploration.'

							comment score: 2 | u/LickitySplit939
							Bias, by definition, is a preference for something that doesn't
							correspond to reality. In so far as we want our cognition to
							align with reality, bias is a problem. I think you're playing
							semantic games, and that anyone arguing in good faith would
							agree minimizing bias is always good.  But anyway, if your
							definition of bias reads as "something that may to totally
							invisible and in any case is equivalent to the subjective" then
							I suppose I have no issue with it either. However, the OP, and
							TheraminTrees, are discussing certain kinds of biases (sexism,
							racism, etc) which I think even you would agree ought to be
							seen as more than benign. In these cases, as I tried to
							describe, there is an entire industry, propped up by
							pseudononsense like the IAT, that preys upon our so called
							toxic hidden biases and claims we have them, despite a total
							lack of evidence, just for existing. It causes many people an
							enormous amount of anxiety to think their own minds are
							betraying them and their values underneath their awareness.
							Anyway, this is turning into a weird debate. I have a feeling a
							feminist subreddit is the wrong place talk about this sort of
							thing, as many people (subconsciously maybe :D) probably think
							privileged groups **should** feel a little angst now and then
							over the conditions of their birth.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 10 | r/AskFeminists | u/MotherHolle | 17 comments | 2020-02-19 | https://redd.it/f6drq1
POST TITLE: How do we determine fault in sexual assault cases where both parties were intoxicated? (And more.)
Hello, everyone!
I conduct research in the field of criminal justice focusing on the intersection of gender and crime. My primary interests are cyberstalking/harassment and intimate partner violence, but I have a secondary interest in sexual assault issues.
I have a few side questions here and I want to "make my case," as it were. I consider myself an ally to feminist causes and try to keep feminist perspectives in mind when researching for and writing papers, so I hope that this is taken in good faith, as I write it as such.
**My primary focus:**
Today, I was reading a thread on one of my social media pages where a woman I am friends with posted that if a woman is drunk, she cannot consent to sex, *period*. As one might expect, women in the comments agreed and one man objected. This appears to be the common response; that women mostly agree and men mostly disagree.
In my opinion, it's more complicated an issue than we sometimes give it credit. On the one hand, it's probably wise not to drink and have sex with anyone who isn't our already-committed partner. If someone is heavily intoxicated and we are not, we should never sleep with them or touch them in a sexual manner. That should be beyond dispute, in my view.
**On the other hand, how do we determine fault if both parties were drunk, and where do we set the bar? That is to say, is** ***any*** **alcohol at all too much to consent, or is there a certain threshold? How do we determine whether either party was too drunk to consent if there is a threshold without their blood alcohol levels? If a woman begins by accusing a man of sexual assault because she was drunk, but he was likewise drunk and decides to accuse her back, how do we determine who was telling the truth? (I'm not sure temporal order is a sound choice considering it would set a bad precedent to assume the person who accuses first is the most honest, as a victim may have many legitimate reasons for hesitating to report an assault or crime.)**
I'm not talking about obvious cases where we have a woman so drunk she's unconscious and a man who hasn't had a drink is engaging in sexual acts with her while she's passed out, I mean ambiguous circumstances. If we are going to use broad, sweeping language to determine whether women can consent when intoxicated, we have to determine whether it applies to every scenario or only a few. If it's only a few or certain situations that the argument applies to, the argument that *drunk at all* means *cannot consent* becomes untenable. I don't think I am taking the position out of context when the argument is proposed as follows (quoting one of the people in the thread from my social media):
>Even if someone was drinking they're under the influence. You can not legally get tattooed if you've been drinking because you can not properly consent. Sex is the same way. You cannot consciously consent to it.
The argument I usually see tends to begin with saying "if she is drunk she can't consent," and then moves to "blackout drunk" when further justification is required. However, not all drinking or being drunk is "blackout drunk." Shifting terms in post-justification seems to me to be a reckless way to treat a serious and already-complex issue, or a sign of lack of forethought.
I think this is a real question we have to answer. Beyond women's victimization, which is important, the answer of whether men can consent when drunk if women can't determines whether men who are sexually assaulted by women or other men are legitimized as victims. There is also the issue of determining guilt in cases where all we have to go on are peoples' word, which is not as easy as simply taking one side at face value and concluding the other party guilty (though, this is often what we do).
Sex isn't something done to women by men or vice versa, it's a mutual act (men "fuck" and women "get fucked" is language of patriarchal conditioning, I'd argue). So, if both parties are drunk at the same time, what happens, then? It seems misogynistic to argue that men, when intoxicated, are possessed of far more self-control or cognitive function than women.
Is mutual accusation that courts must sort out the safest route? Consent forms seem a little excessive in a hookup culture, but I have seen getting written consent proposed seriously and mockingly. If we take it seriously, the problem with that would be proving the form wasn't signed under duress or that the person was competent enough to sign at the time. (Similarly difficult to prove.)
In any case, sober sex is definitely the safest course of action.
**Tangential focus:**
Regarding the phrase "believe women," as someone who has been a victim of cyber harassment, domestic violence, sexual abuse, and false allegations at the hands of a former partner who was doing to me what she said I was doing to her, I think that we as a society need to reevaluate our interpretation of “believing victims” (regardless of gender). Specifically, the meaning of the phrase “believe.” My interpretation of believing victims is that we (the public, the justice system) should approach victims and perpetrators without preconceptions or prejudice. That is to say, putting aside preconceived notions and taking in and interpreting the facts of the case without judgment, in particular, while these facts are still coming out.
I have discussed this with colleagues at work and they've come to a similar consensus once we parse the language. Everyone certainly acknowledges that false accusations of sexual assault are far rarer than sexual assaults (which themselves are relatively rare as a subset of violent crime, generally, since crime and criminality themselves are relatively rare as compared to non-criminal conduct). What I am more concerned with here is how we determine guilt relative to mutual intoxication, or if we are developing a double standard in which men can consent when drunk and women cannot, thus rendering men rapists in cases where they could never be seen as legitimate victims themselves if the situation were reversed.
When I see someone accused of wrongdoing, I suspend judgment and wait for the facts. I don't assume the accuser or accused are telling the truth or lying, and I would hope that this should be the approach of law enforcement, as well. Meaning, they should listen to an accuser or victim without assuming things about her or him; for instance, they would listen without asking a woman why she was wearing a short skirt or why she was out drinking at 3 AM, or they would listen without asking a man why he didn't stop her if he didn't want it, and so forth.
That is, fundamentally, however, not “believing” victims in the sense of taking all their words as fact at face value. Yet, this appears frequently to be the way that this idea is interpreted. If I suspend judgment and observe facts without judgment as they come in, as I would hope police would when questioning an accuser and her or his accused, I feel pressured to side with the victim by default. But, I think that this does not capture the true spirit of "believing victims" that ought to be intended.
It seems to me that, while the justice system has a tendency to fail to handle many people who engage in sexual assault or domestic violence, the popular court of public opinion shoots firsts and asks questions later, and uses the above concept regarding belief wrongly. We too often fall on one extreme or the other in terms of 100% believing the victim or 100% victim-blaming, which I think happens just as often (men online immediately assuming the woman is lying, that is). Of course, the facts themselves need to be scrutinized fairly in the first place for this conversation to move forward in any meaningful way. As it stands, there's a lot of spinning in circles.
I hope this isn't too rambling. I am looking for a clearer feminist perspective on the varying variables of this topic, and have previously received some decent answers to questions here. I've not found reasonable satisfaction just from the people I know, and I don't think the #MeToo movement, which is still in its infancy, has reached the stage of addressing these nuances and issues yet, as it still fights for women's legitimization as victims at all (I don't fault it for that). Thank you!
EDIT: Thank you for the responses! Very helpful.

	comment score: 6 | u/None
	Feminist perspectives, like criminal justice perspective, are in
	their infancy on the topic of drunk sex. College sex educators are
	just beginning to deviate from the binary of "drunk = no consent."
	Psychologists and sexologists are working on questions like "what
	does drunk consensual sex look like?" " How do we advise sexually
	active adults on incorporating alcohol in their sex lives?"  They're
	great questions. As for criminal justice, what you've said is
	correct. In most cases it's pretty clear if someone is committing
	sexual assault regardless of either person's intoxication levels:
	i.e: forcing oneself on a unconscious out drunk person is rape no
	matter how intoxicated either is.  I think In more ambiguous ncases,
	more information besides alcohol level is going to determine if it is
	sexual assault, and who is the assaulter. Things like: Was someone
	violent? Did one person plan beforehand to get the other drunk and
	have sex with them? Was anyone coerced into sex? In cases with
	similar levels of intoxication, all the other things that tend to
	indicate sexual assault, and help define consent are still hugely
	relevant. They might even be more significant than intoxication. Hope
	this helps

		comment score: 2 | u/None
		I want to expand on my last point a little: I think alcohol is
		exaggerated in it's effect on consent. Other things can be just as
		affective in whether or not one has sex: past trauma, fear, social
		isolation, self-esteem. Each of these strongly affects one's
		capacity to fully and enthusiastically consent. I think alcohol is
		brought up more because it's more easily observable and measurable,
		but other things can be just as relevant; tbey're harder to use in
		court, but essential when consenting to sex with a partner. Note:
		this does NOT mean alcohol is unimportant in figuring out consent.
		It's huge. This is just a digression, inspired by this: I've had
		more friends who've consented to sex because they were feeling bad
		about themselves and regretted it afterwards, than those who did so
		because they were drunk

	comment score: 7 | u/MellowAiello
	The core of consent is whether the activity is wanted or not. People
	can engage in wanted sex under the influence of alcohol, that said
	engaging in sexual activity while intoxicated is risky. This hinges
	on whether they would make the same decision sober. Alcohol affects
	the ability to communicate clearly. People may be more likely to
	willfully or unknowingly disregard messages they’re being sent (this
	is rape). It is always important to ask “Do you still want to do
	this?” “Do you need a break?” “Is this okay?”

	comment score: 4 | u/JulieCrone
	I have never seen anyone argue that there should be different rules
	regarding intoxication and consent depending on whether or not an
	intoxicated person is a man or a woman.  If both people are drunk,
	the person to initiate and push for a sexual encounter is the one who
	may be guilty of sexual assault if the other person was not
	consenting or too intoxicated to consent.  Doesn't matter if that
	person is a man or a woman, or the other person is a man or a woman.
	Doesn't matter if the assailant was too drunk to know what they were
	doing.  If I go haul off and punch someone at a bar, and my defense
	is that I was too drunk to understand the other person didn't realize
	we were just playing a fully consensual game, well, I don't think it
	will end so well for me. As for the 'believe victims', you are right
	in thinking this is what it means: >I don't assume the accuser or
	accused are telling the truth or lying, and I would hope that this
	should be the approach of law enforcement, as well. Meaning, they
	should listen to an accuser or victim without assuming things about
	her or him; for instance, they would listen without asking a woman
	why she was wearing a short skirt or why she was out drinking at 3
	AM, or they would listen without asking a man why he didn't stop her
	if he didn't want it, and so forth. 'Believe victims' means to not
	automatically assume they are lying and dismiss their accusations out
	of hand.  It means not questioning people from the supposition that
	the person is lying about what happened to them, or looking for a way
	to excuse what the accused did. >It seems to me that, while the
	justice system has a tendency to fail to handle many people who
	engage in sexual assault or domestic violence, the popular court of
	public opinion shoots firsts and asks questions later, and uses the
	above concept regarding belief wrongly. The public isn't using the
	concept regarding belief wrongly, they are just evaluating the
	situation from a different perspective.  Courts are looking at
	whether or not a crime was committed.  The public is thinking about
	what it does and does not view as socially acceptable behavior.
	Public shaming is not about legal guilt, it's about whether people
	feel a violation of social mores has happened, and if one did, is
	calling out that violation going to be an even greater violation of a
	social standard they value greater. We see it time and again with
	public cases around sexual assault, where the social standard that
	sexual assault is wrong meets against the social standard that
	talented people are valuable to society.  If the accused is
	sufficiently talented, there will be plenty of people looking for any
	way to say they didn't do it and no assault has been proven, and the
	burden of proof becomes higher and higher.  When it's a case of an
	undocumented immigrant accused of sexual assault or previously
	anonymous poor (usually minority) men, the very people who may
	vehemently defend a Bret Kavanaugh will now vehemently assert the
	accused's guilt.  There's no sense that this is a talented person of
	value, so now it is easy to declare sexual assault as wrong. The
	court of public opinion is never about individual guilt or innocence,
	but what social values are.  It's not something we'll ever shut down,
	no matter how often it shows just how hypocritical and misguided our
	values may be.

		comment score: 2 | u/Xomm4
		>I have never seen anyone argue that there should be different rules
		regarding intoxication and consent depending on whether or not an
		intoxicated person is a man or a woman.  If both people are drunk,
		the person to initiate and push for a sexual encounter is the one
		who may be guilty of sexual assault if the other person was not
		consenting or too intoxicated to consent.  All right, here you go:
		there should be different rules regarding intoxication and sex
		depending on whether an intoxicated person is a man or a woman. The
		reason is that men and women participate in sex differently. If you
		like, women are more often victimized. So, now you have.

			comment score: 5 | u/JulieCrone
			Women are more often to be victims of sexual assault, yes, but why
			would the law on what constitutes sexual assault and intoxication
			be different?

				comment score: 2 | u/Xomm4
				Women and men participate in sex differently. Have you ever seen
				two people go home together? (Maybe not).

					comment score: 2 | u/JulieCrone
					Married to a man, so yes.  Gone home together drunk too.  Yes,
					there are some anatomical differences and personal quirks unique
					to us both but beyond that?  Not sure what you mean.

						comment score: 2 | u/Xomm4
						When I said: >Have you ever seen two people go home together? I
						meant other than you. (We can't really observe ourselves in each
						moment.)  Have you seen anyone else (i.e. two other people) go
						home together? (Maybe not.)

							comment score: 3 | u/JulieCrone
							Dude, I am an old.  Yes I have.  Over two decades of seeing it.

								comment score: 1 | u/Xomm4
								And. Don't you think those men's and women's behaviors were
								different and complementary? (If you just think of people who
								went home together.) I don't think their behavior is the same.

									comment score: 3 | u/JulieCrone
									I saw all kids of different behaviors and could not say I
									observed men being one way and women being another.  There
									was a wide variety of ways men would act and a wide variety
									of ways women would.  Now, I am not a magical sprite who was
									in everyone’s bedrooms (or kitchens, or living rooms, or
									wherever), but I could observe no pattern based on gender.

										comment score: 1 | u/StandUpTall66
										Yeah I am with you, the law should treat men and women the
										same here or else that law would just be codified sexism

		comment score: -2 | u/None
		[deleted]

			comment score: 5 | u/JulieCrone
			Also pay attention of who concerns about ‘the court of public
			opinion’ get raised.  It’s usually when people are criticizing an
			otherwise powerful or popular person, not to protect someone who is
			usually systemically vulnerable.  Handwringing about public opinion
			is invariable used to protect the powerful and is rarely about
			ensuring fairness.

			comment score: 3 | u/JulieCrone
			Also pay attention of who concerns about ‘the court of public
			opinion’ get raised.  It’s usually when people are criticizing an
			otherwise powerful or popular person, not to protect someone who is
			usually systemically vulnerable.  Handwringing about public opinion
			is invariable used to protect the powerful and is rarely about
			ensuring fairness.

	comment score: 2 | u/dedreo
	It's late, I'm tired, but interested in this post (didn't finish, but
	will).   I had to take some required classes (not for domestic or
	anything like that, just drinking too much in public basically), and
	they mentioned it as a LAW that if both parties are drunk, the
	drunker person can charge the lesser drunk one if there comes
	evidence of that (like say someone tested at .23 and the other tested
	at .09)   It blew many peoples minds, but I think it was more of a
	shock routine they are used to doing.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 9 | r/AskFeminists | u/RhizonXXVII | 117 comments | 2019-04-18 | https://redd.it/belnmb
POST TITLE: Am I wrong for thinking that a marriage is a great danger for most any man?
In my early twenties, and just graduated with a STEM degree. I always do research on any important decisions. Getting a car, apartment, a house etc. I noticed that even when I got my permit, I had to study. When I got my license, I had to do the same. It bothered me that you can just waltz into city hall and get a marriage license with no classes, or tests to check for knowledge and understanding.
I did some research, and found the figures you all know about. What really struck me was veterans returning home from war, finding their wives cheating, and still losing their homes, property, custody, alimony and child support (Terrence Popp is one example). Add to that the suicide rate after divorces for men, and no-fault divorce. This just about sealed it as to where I stand on marriage at the moment. I do not want to live in an echo chamber in my mind, or in subs that agree with me. So I am honestly (no sarcasm or trolling) asking you for ways a marriage benefits the man. Not the family or children, but the man. Or is it truly just a "sacrificial lamb" type of deal as I see it? Really asking for different opinions. I've made my bias clear, and am aware of yours, which is why I'm here.

	comment score: 103 | u/lostwoods95
	Mate, it's great that you are willing to have your views challenged
	and that you don't want to exist within an echo chamber, but I think
	you need to examine your views on women before you think about
	marriage. When you say things like >Women and most certainly
	feminists, thanks to what you think isn't neo-marxism, are now our
	natural enemies and competition. it becomes clear that you view
	marriage with distrust primarily due to your distrust of women
	themselves. That being said, I hope someone more knowledgeable than
	me on this subject replies to this post and gives you an in depth
	answer.  **Edit**: I'd also recommend x posting this to r/MensLib.

		comment score: -33 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 45 | u/lostwoods95
			If I was trying to diminish your credibility, I would've just
			called you an incel and told you to piss off. I added the quote in
			to show that some of your views towards women are problematic, and
			therefore, an unbiased discussion about the merits of marriage
			might prove challenging without first tackling the root of the
			problem; namely, your views towards women. Edit: And I genuinely
			meant it when I said I was glad that you were willing to hear the
			other side out. I wasn't trying to be dismissive, if that's how I
			came across.

				comment score: 2 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
				I see. How would you say I should view them then? I firmly believe
				that if you give a population too much power in a situation,
				marital contracts in this case, the vast majority would fall
				corrupt to it. You know of men abusing and manipulating power;
				these are human beings. I view women's motives to be just like
				that of any other man with heaps of power. Most men make more than
				most women, and marriage is designed to "balance" the scales by
				taking from the one that makes more and give to that making less;
				and no reason is needed (no-fault divorce). Trust and loyalty are
				constantly tested in a relationship where one stands to lose far
				more than the other, outside of losing just the relationship of
				course. If for example the relationship is no longer of worth to
				the party with less resources, it stands to reason that this party
				would only stand to gain from ending the contract. If you are
				asking me to view women as having morals so much as to abstain
				from this, you would be asking me to view women as far more
				morally adept than their male counterparts; so much as to invoke
				the need to bestow that much legally-bound authority on them. I
				cannot do that. Hope this makes sense. For what it's worth, I can
				appreciate your point of view.

					comment score: 15 | u/IntergalacticFig
					> If for example the relationship is no longer of worth to the
					party with less resources, it stands to reason that this party
					would only stand to gain from ending the contract. So, let's say
					women are just totally mercenary, and out to get the highest
					standard of living they can. (I don't personally agree with that
					statement, but let's say it's true for sake of argument.)  You
					have a woman who makes, say, 30k/year. She is married to a man
					making $70k/year. Jointly, they make $100k/year (~$8300/month).
					They share a lovely marital home, with a payment of $1500/month.
					With insurance, utilities, etc, call it $2,000/month to keep the
					lights on. They have a remaining $6k for car payments, spending,
					investments, etc.  Let's say they get divorced, and let's say he
					is forced to pay her alimony, so they now both have an efective
					pay rate of 50k/year (~$4100/month). Neither of them can afford
					that $2k/month house payment they were paying, so they sell the
					house, and each downsize. She's now paying, say, $1,200/month in
					rent, and $300 more in utilities, etc, for a total of
					$1,500/month.  She now has about $2,600/month for the rest of her
					expenses, as opposed to the $6k she had before. And she lives in
					a smaller, crappier place.  She did not "gain" by divorcing him,
					even though she was awarded alimony. Net, she lost. And likely,
					that alimony has an expiration set. Either it's for a set number
					of years, or at best, until she remarries.

						comment score: 2 | u/MizDiana
						Good breakdown.

						comment score: 2 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
						Maybe I oversimplified too many facets of everything. Point
						taken. Back to the drawing board.

			comment score: 20 | u/eliechallita
			And we're pointing out that what you said shows that your question
			is driven by another, deeper one which needs to be addressed first.
			Rathern than examining your views on marriage, you might want to
			reexamine your views of women in general first.

				comment score: -2 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
				How am I to "reexamine" my views on women? I cannot read minds and
				I would be a fool to assume that others, men included, have my
				best interests at heart and that it will stay that way. My
				distrust of people in general is what fuels my line of
				questioning. It is now focused on "women in marriages," and not
				just "women" as you're implying, because I am a heterosexual male,
				having questions about marriage. Neither you nor I, can speak for
				all men and women. We can only use experiences as well as
				statistics to direct our search for answers. "Reexamining" to you
				possibly aligns with, "women are not out to get you," or "not all
				women are untrustworthy." They are irrelevant statements not only
				because you cannot meet or speak for all women, but because this
				has nothing to do with what they are legally, and socially allowed
				to get away with. So, no I will not be "reexamining" my views on
				women, men, or human nature in general first.

					comment score: 10 | u/BlatantNapping
					\>what they are legally, and socially allowed to get away with
					\>get away with  Hmm...yea you have a healthy view of women,
					definitely /s

			comment score: 10 | u/EuphroThaliaAglaea
			> Using a quote not from the post itself Nothing wrong with that,
			and if you feel you've made your bias clear, you should find
			nothing wrong with it either.

	comment score: 77 | u/KaliTheCat
	> It bothered me that you can just waltz into city hall and get a
	marriage license with no classes, or tests to check for knowledge and
	understanding. I mean, you can have a *baby* with no knowledge,
	understanding, permit, testing, classes, or anything. I don't know
	why marriage would be different, especially because no-fault divorce
	exists. I'd suggest that suicide rates for men increase because
	they've lost their social structure. I've said before in other
	threads that wives often act as "cruise directors" for their
	husband's social lives-- arranging parties, remembering birthdays,
	maintaining connections, bringing him along to social functions and
	making him leave the house. When she leaves or dies, he feels adrift
	because he's not used to maintaining those connections himself, so he
	becomes more isolated. We also don't encourage a culture of close
	male bonding where men can be emotionally vulnerable with each other,
	so even if the man does have friends, he may not feel comfortable
	talking about all the feelings he's got. That's also bad. His health
	may decline since there is no one around to tell him to eat some
	vegetables or to drink water or to go to the doctor or whatever. That
	can contribute, too. > What really struck me was veterans returning
	home from war, finding their wives cheating, and still losing their
	homes, property, custody, alimony and child support (Terrence Popp is
	one example). Is this the norm, though? Of all the married couples
	who get divorced, is this *that* common? I don't really know what's
	wrong with no-fault divorce, though. You shouldn't have had to do
	something criminal or vow-breaking to end a relationship that doesn't
	make you happy anymore. Sucks raising kids in an environment that's
	just brimming with bitterness and resentment. [Why Men Resist
	Marriage Even Though They Benefit the Most From
	It](https://ifstudies.org/blog/why-men-resist-marriage-even-though-
	they-benefit-the-most-from-it/) [Hey Guys, Put a Ring On
	It](https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/02/marriage-benefits-men-
	financial-health-sex-divorce-caveat/) [Why Men Need Marriage More
	than Women](https://medium.com/@amanlitt/why-men-need-marriage-more-
	than-women-13f93e1a77f) I mean, there are a TON of resources on this.
	I suggest Google.

		comment score: 33 | u/MizDiana
		It sounds like at this point the OP's google searches are going to
		be heavily weighted to paranoia-inducing topics.

	comment score: 67 | u/None
	Yes. Men generally benefit from being married, more than women do. It
	increases their lifespan and happiness. Men also do better
	financially after divorce than women do. Do better research.

		comment score: 47 | u/ILikeNeurons
		Marriage is arguably bad for women. Despite being worse off
		financially after a divorce, [women are more likely to ask for one](
		https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divorce_in_the_United_States#Initiatio
		n).  If you want your marriage to last, choose your spouse based on
		compatibility and not just looks, [marry a highly educated woman](ht
		tps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divorce_in_the_United_States#Rates_of_di
		vorce), and treat her right.

		comment score: -42 | u/None
		Hey I'm doing research and all of a sudden I'm hitting this concept
		of _alimony._ 🤔

			comment score: 56 | u/KaliTheCat
			Alimony: 1) Fairly uncommon 2) Not "for life," it's usually either
			a set amount or a set duration (or some other limiting factor
			decided in the settlement) 3) Is generally awarded because half of
			the couple sacrificed something to further the other half's career,
			usually their career, in order to raise children (but can also be
			things like "paid for the other half to go to medical school" or
			something) 4) Is available to both men and women Alimony isn't some
			prize women get when they leave their husbands.

				comment score: 25 | u/None
				His comments are yikes. Here I thought his original one was an
				insinuation that OP was asking in bad faith (which is true).

					comment score: -12 | u/None
					What do you mean by yikes? I post on r/stupidpol, is that it? I
					wasn't insinuating OP was asking in bad faith. Although, okay, he
					kind of is. He thinks feminists are his enemy. But I think he's
					being effortful to come off as respectful. He just doesn't
					understand feminism.

						comment score: 34 | u/None
						Your comment on spousal support being "traumatic" and comparing
						it to rape is pretty yikes, to make an understatement. OP is not
						posting in good faith.

							comment score: -20 | u/None
							[removed]

								comment score: 27 | u/None
								The fact that you see divorce as a process of a woman
								victimizing a man reveals your shortsightedness and misogyny.
								Do you think it's traumatic for a woman to sacrifice her
								career for her spouse's, which is why spousal support after
								divorce exists? Do you think divorce is easy or pleasant for
								women, who suffer far more financially than men do? I think
								the true answer is that you don't care about what women
								experience. Hence why it's so easy for you to belittle the
								trauma of sexual assault.

									comment score: -13 | u/None
									>The fact that you see divorce as a process of a woman
									victimizing a man reveals your shortsightedness and misogyny.
									I'm not trying to disparage women, actually. That reveals
									your own short-sightedness and misogyny. It's projection. I'm
									trying to relate to you how trauma and narcissism works.
									Alimony is traumatic. That's what men are saying. You can see
									your own narcissism fluctuate in response. I can feel how you
									were traumatized. It's in the projection. And I'm really,
									really sorry. Sincerely.  >Do you think it's traumatic for a
									woman to sacrifice her career for her spouse's, which is why
									spousal support after divorce exists? Yes I do. I see that,
									yes. Trauma passes through us. We pass to one and the other.
									Narcissism, unrealized, is what closes us -- but you have to
									understand your narcissism as _valid._ Your trauma is
									_valid._ Narcissism is the appropriate response, in fact the
									only response to trauma. When we realize this, we can
									actually turn trauma into beauty.  >Do you think divorce is
									easy or pleasant for women, who suffer far more financially
									than men do? I think it sucks all around. But why do you
									think it's men expressing trauma and fear over divorce?
									Feminism isn't formed around that. So. >I think the true
									answer is that you don't care about what women experience.
									Hence why it's so easy for you to belittle the trauma of
									sexual assault. Ah. It would be convenient to believe so.
									That's your narcissism talking. But it's not true. I'm not
									belittling the trauma of sexual assault. In fact that's a
									very acute form of trauma, and a form that females of all
									creatures undergo. When a woman is raped she is experiencing
									all rape. It's an essential, profound tragedy, and
									appropriately there is a fascination with it. Hate and love
									are two sides of the same coin. And we have trauma and what?
									of another.

										comment score: 12 | u/BlatantNapping
										Wow dude. To go back to the original point, your whole line
										of comments ITT most certainly is yikes, and it's silly for
										you to pretend you don't know it.

		comment score: -2 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 8 | u/BlatantNapping
			You've already expanded enough for everyone here, thx tho

								comment score: 14 | u/KaliTheCat
								> Feminists don't want to acknowledge the trauma men undergo
								because it's about empowering women. Incidentally I think we
								*do* acknowledge it, just not in the way you want us to, which
								appears to be by saying "alimony is wrong and should not
								exist."

									comment score: 14 | u/None
									Or by saying "women are evil harpies who use divorce to hurt
									men."

				comment score: -13 | u/None
				[removed]

					comment score: 32 | u/KaliTheCat
					> I think you are underestimating the trauma of paying someone
					that broke you. I mean, okay? Divorce sucks, nobody's suggesting
					it doesn't, but I'm also pretty sure every person paying alimony
					wasn't some innocent husband who threw everything he had into a
					marriage and was cruelly dumped anyway by his evil, conniving
					witch of a wife. Alimony isn't meant to be a punishment. It's
					meant to supplement the person who sacrificed the most for the
					marriage and who will struggle the most to get back on their feet
					on one income.

						comment score: -1 | u/None
						[removed]

							comment score: 22 | u/KaliTheCat
							Rape isn't alimony. I didn't say I don't believe they feel
							traumatized. I'm sure they do. >Since when is marriage a
							financial sacrifice for women? Do they have to quit their jobs
							to get married? No, you're missing the part where it's because
							women generally sacrifice their careers to raise children and
							therefore struggle initially in the job market because of that
							gap in their employment. Also, again, alimony isn't just for
							women.

							comment score: 21 | u/None
							>Since when is marriage a financial sacrifice for women? Oh,
							honey.

								comment score: -7 | u/None
								Hahaha no -- marriage if anything is a financial _boost._ What
								you're talking about is having kids. And anyways we see,
								feminism complains that marriage constricts freedom and
								meaning. That's mostly an argument for when marriage was the
								only meaningful thing culturally. Not financial hampering, and
								it never was. That's what the men are reporting. Don't pretend
								all of a sudden women are actually hurting financially from
								marriage, because it's not true. I hope you take the time to
								consider how your ego and your feminism interact. Because
								narcissism is only healthy if it's attached to reality.
								Pulling out further, what I fear for is a feminism attached to
								capital. We know what capital does. It's a corruptive force.
								It incentivizes bad faith, the exploitation of trauma and
								narcissism, the selling of identitarian warfare. That's the
								real enemy.

									comment score: 11 | u/KaliTheCat
									>feminism complains that marriage constricts freedom and
									meaning. ??????

							comment score: 21 | u/MasterlessMan333
							> Do they have to quit their jobs to get married? In many
							cases, yes. Have you ever heard the term [Reproductive
							Labor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reproductive_labor)? This
							basically refers to all the domestic duties that make a
							household function and it materially contributes to the
							productivity of everyone in the house who is gainfully
							employed. If a man is able to go to work with the reasonable
							expectation that when he gets back his children will be fed,
							his house will be clean, his clothes will be laundered and
							there will be a hot meal waiting for him, he becomes a better
							worker. He's able to put in longer hours, earn more, perhaps
							even get a promotion. His long term earning potential is
							greatly increased. If he were to divorce his wife after all she
							did to help him get there, is she entitled to nothing? She
							sacrificed her earning potential to increase his. If she were
							to try to reenter the job market, she would have no applicable
							experience. Her years of domestic labor are worthless to any
							potential employer, despite the fact they were instrumental to
							her husband's success. Alimony is an acknowledgement of her
							investment in his long term success, which she had intended to
							benefit from as his wife.

								comment score: -3 | u/None
								I'm not sure what that link was. I got a bunch of code. >This
								basically refers to all the domestic duties that make a
								household function and it materially contributes to the
								productivity of everyone in the house who is gainfully
								employed. If a man is able to go to work with the reasonable
								expectation that when he gets back his children will be fed,
								his house will be clean, his clothes will be laundered and
								there will be a hot meal waiting for him, he becomes a better
								worker. He's able to put in longer hours, earn more, perhaps
								even get a promotion. His long term earning potential is
								greatly increased. I'm not sure what you are talking about.
								The vast majority of marriages are two working adults sharing
								chores. You have to imagine the most conservative household
								you can in order to justify alimony.  In your imagination, a
								woman who would have an amazing career chose a marriage in
								which she was the most conservative version of a housewife.
								Why do we have laws institutionalizing the most conservative
								ideal of what marriage is when most marriages that arent, you
								know, trying to recreate the 50's, are two working adults,
								working in tandem? We have a very narrow justification for
								alimony, with obvious game theoretical problems.

									comment score: 19 | u/MasterlessMan333
									I apologize. [The link is now fixed.
									](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reproductive_labor) > The
									vast majority of marriages are two working adults sharing
									chores. You have to imagine the most conservative household
									you can in order to justify alimony. Perhaps this is why
									alimony is increasingly rare, a fact you've repeatedly
									dismissed when others tried to point it out.

									comment score: 4 | u/None
									>The vast majority of marriages are two working adults
									sharing chores. Incorrect again. Women still do the majority
									of domestic labor, even when both spouses work outside the
									home. It's clear you have no idea what you're talking about,
									young man.

	comment score: 60 | u/Tuala08
	I am a woman and I have been married for 8 months. Here are my
	thoughts in no particular order: * I also wonder sometimes why there
	are no procedure one needs to pass through to get married or
	procreate. For example there is a huge process to adopt, but if you
	DIY a crotch goblin, then no one cares?  * That said, there ARE
	classes available. My sister took a marriage class that had different
	themes each week like finances and kids. However, when my fiance and
	I looked for one, we discovered that they are all faith based and
	since we didn't want to get married in a church, we were not eligible
	to take the classes. * So we did what we thought was the next best
	thing. We googled "questions to ask before marriage" and we discussed
	every topic we could find. We talked to all the couples in our
	immediate family and asked for advice and listened to their wisdom.
	We went to a financial adviser and made a budget for us as a couple.
	We have delved into questions like "what would you do if I died?",
	"what if our child had a disability?", "how do we handle being
	unemployed?", "what do we do if our child becomes an addict?" etc.
	You can't talk about all possibilities but we know where we stand and
	that we will be a team. * My husband and I find that being in a
	relationship together provides a variety of benefits. We both enjoy
	loving and being loved. We enjoy the intimacy both emotional and
	physical. We enjoy spending time together and we feel we enrich each
	other's lives. We benefit from what we do for each. I help my husband
	with his finances and he helps me cleaning because I suck at it. * We
	decided to get married because we wanted to celebrate our love with
	our family and make a lifelong commitment, we want to have children
	and in some cases being married can be a benefit for that, and there
	are benefits when it comes to taxes, visas, and healthcare.  * There
	are some things anyone can do to protect themselves against some of
	the downsides of marriage including signing a prenup, having separate
	finances, and most importantly marrying someone who you are
	compatible with. There is research that suggests there are things you
	can do to help your odds of staying together, such as getting married
	in mid to late 20's, both people being well educated, having good
	conflict resolution skills (something you can practice), not spending
	a huge amount on the wedding etc.

		comment score: 17 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
		This should be at the top. It makes me so profoundly sad to see so
		many people talking about marriage like it’s a boardwalk game where
		the parties compete to see who can make the most money out of its
		“inevitable” dissolution.

		comment score: 7 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
		This kind response was what I was hoping for, but instead I get
		dinged for having my own beliefs and stances on important issues,
		prior to inquiring for what other stances are on the matter; as if
		that's a bad thing, that's the whole point. I can't find anything I
		disagree on with what you've shared except for maybe that there are
		no real ways for a man to be protected from the downsides. Prenups
		get thrown out at alarming rates. And as you mentioned it all boils
		down to the two in the marriage to not take it to court. Once one of
		them does it becomes   devastating. But anyways, there are benefits
		to marriage like you've said, but from my experience as well as
		statistics, to me personally, that doesn't stand to be the case.
		For what it's worth I wish you both the best.

			comment score: 26 | u/IKnowWhatImAbout
			You talk about doing research, but I think your scope is rather
			narrow. I encourage you to look into what goes into a successful
			relationship; it is not the roll of the dice it is often made out
			to be. What makes for a happy couple years down the line? Why do
			some marriages last and others fail? What are early warning signs
			in a relationship and what are positive factors to look for? How do
			couples develop and maintain trust and intimacy? How do you best
			understand your partner and move forward from disagreements and
			failings? This is not something you need to go into blind, nor
			should you. Read books like The 5 Love Languages, Hold Me Tight,
			and Attached. You can see a therapist to become aware of and work
			on anything in yourself that might affect your ability to be
			intimate and vulnerable, and see a couples counselor before getting
			married to better understand what unique struggles you will face as
			a couple and how to better handle them when they arise. Classes may
			not be mandatory, but guiding resources are abundant. Any great
			endeavor requires education and preparation to succeed. It is a
			shame that so many go into it unprepared.

				comment score: 2 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
				"What makes for a happy couple years down the line? Why do some
				marriages last and others fail? What are early warning signs in a
				relationship and what are positive factors to look for? How do
				couples develop and maintain trust and intimacy? How do you best
				understand your partner and move forward from disagreements and
				failings?" You assume I did not look into this. Like I said, I did
				the research. But you see, the burden of responsibility does not
				fall on both parties. You see, all of those questions are valid if
				the relationship remains of worth to both. My view is that most
				men simply have far more to lose than a woman does. If the
				relationship is all there is to lose, then that it is a different
				story. Today, if your spouse makes more than you, you are rewarded
				for ending the relationship even though the relationship itself,
				may be of no clear use to you. That is something many, both men
				and women, seem oblivious to when entering relationships. If you
				stand to lose far more than the other, the onus for the
				relationship's upkeep falls mostly on you, which is a shame. "It
				is a shame that so many go into it unprepared." Agreed.

					comment score: 15 | u/IKnowWhatImAbout
					I made that assumption because it was absent from your original
					post which included references to many anecdotes and divorce
					statistics. I am glad to hear you've looked into those things.
					>Today, if your spouse makes more than you, you are rewarded for
					ending the relationship even though the relationship itself, may
					be of no clear use to you.   I am curious what studies you've
					found that indicate this. Everything I can find says that the
					immediate effects of divorce on males' emotional health is
					disproportionate but that this is transient, whereas the negative
					consequences for females are chronic and largely economic and in
					regards to single parenting. >In the year of divorce, women lost
					approximately 40 % of their predivorce incomes, whereas their
					former husbands experienced moderate gains of approximately 5 %.
					Although women recovered in subsequent years, their poverty risk
					remained above 25 % even several years after divorce. Men’s
					poverty risk remained unchanged across the divorce process.    In
					the final period studied (3 to 5 years after divorce),
					approximately 40 % of men and slightly less than 40 % of women
					were living with a partner. In terms of the related risk of
					single parenting, a large gender gap of approximately 40
					percentage points (55 % of women vs. 14 % of men) opened up in
					the year of divorce and did not change much in subsequent years.
					[Source](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5992251/)
					>It is found that women's family income drops roughly one‐half,
					and men's declines about one quarter in the first year of
					divorce, while using income‐to‐needs ratios to adjust for family
					size indicates a smallish rise in economic well‐being for men,
					versus drops of just over 40 per cent for women. These initial
					income changes are followed by moderate rises for both men and
					women in the following years. Poverty rates jump from .16 to .43
					for women in the year of divorce, and then drop off slowly, while
					for men they rise only a couple of points at the breakup.  [Sourc
					e](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1755-618X.19
					93.tb00173.x)

					comment score: 6 | u/KaliTheCat
					> Today, if your spouse makes more than you, you are rewarded for
					ending the relationship Not necessarily. If I make more money
					than you, but I pay for you to go to medical school and you
					divorce me as soon as you get your M.D. and a job, I can sue you
					for alimony to make you pay back the money I spent on your
					degree.

					comment score: 4 | u/killgriffithvol2
					>Today, if your spouse makes more than you, you are rewarded for
					ending the relationship even though the relationship itself, may
					be of no clear use to you. 75% of divorces are initiated by the
					woman. It's a mine field where you have a fairly decent chance to
					lose half your shit. Ask yourself, what do you stand to gain from
					marriage, and what do you stand to lose?

			comment score: 3 | u/tBrenna
			Ok. I get that you’re being all analytical and logical about this
			and you’re trying to research stuff, but literally all of that
			information is subjective to the two people in that particular
			relationship. You want to know why you should get married? Because
			you found someone who you can’t stand NOT being married to for
			another second. That’s it. If you haven’t found that, then you
			don’t do that. There is no explanation anyone else can give you
			because this is a heart/emotional based decision first. All the
			rest still has to be looked at and gone over, but if that one thing
			isn’t at the heart of it, don’t do it. Stay single (dating or not,
			I just mean the legal term of not married) or don’t. Because you
			never know. That car you did all the research on could be a lemon.
			Same with the person of your dreams (I don’t actually think people
			are like cars, but I’m using your analogy). Because the thing is,
			you can’t know what’s in the heart and mind of another person. But
			if you find at some point that you trust them enough, anyway, that
			it is worth the possible pain and loss of a divorce (trust me, it’s
			one of the hardest things a person can do even when it’s the
			easiest divorce a person can have), then marry them. If not, then
			don’t. Neither option is bad. I do, however, agree that you may
			want to step back and take a look at your presumptions. You claimed
			a background that would make doing that second nature. I don’t say
			that to attack. I say it as someone who is in a field that deals
			with science, scientific thinking, and teaching science. Always
			look at your presumptions and make sure that’s not where the error
			is. Good luck

			comment score: 0 | u/Tuala08
			> instead I get dinged for having my own beliefs and stances on
			important issues, I am glad it was helpful! Alas, the internet is
			the not exactly the best place to go if you were looking to not get
			dinged for your beliefs.   >  there are no real ways for a man to
			be protected from the downsides. We could argue this about all
			sorts of things we do! Like with driving - a seat belt is like a
			prenup in that they help protect you. However, there are a few
			instances where a seat belt can do more harm than good - but we
			still wear them! There is also no way to really protect yourself
			from being fired from your job - but you can work to find a good
			job and be a good employee that your boss wants to keep around-
			just like you can work to find a good partner and be a good partner
			yourself.  Having a good, long lasting, happy marriage requires
			hard work and commitment from both sides.  > Once one of them does
			it becomes devastating.   I disagree with this.Yes, it can become
			awful when it becomes too emotional - often when people fight over
			who gets what or if cheating was involved.  However, many in my
			family are divorced and were able to handle it amicably.  In all
			the situations, they got married young and for not great reasons.
			When they grew up a bit and realized they weren't good matches,
			they got divorced and many remarried and have been quite happy
			since.

		comment score: 6 | u/kymilovechelle
		Your first point makes me feel like I’m not alone — I’ve always
		wondered why we don’t need to pass a test or have a license to
		procreate! Even to breed a dog you have to have a license!

			comment score: 3 | u/Tuala08
			Exactly! And if you are a dog breeder you have to make sure you
			don't do anything to screw up the puppies and you are responsible
			for finding them good homes.  I am currently trying to have a baby
			and even though I have spent my life in education and child care I
			feel so unprepared.

		comment score: 1 | u/exastrisscientiaDS9
		So you accept eugenics, ain't that right?

			comment score: 0 | u/Tuala08
			No. How did anything I said have to do with eugenics? Are you
			referring to my point about classes for procreation? I simply wish
			there was an easy way for potential parents to be given basic
			knowledge like how to change a diaper, how to feed a child (there
			are already classes/support for breastfeeding where I live for
			example), how to support your child with the basics of education
			etc.

		comment score: -1 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 3 | u/Tuala08
			Wow I have never been called a fascist before! Do I get an internet
			badge?   But yah, if I was world dictator I would make people take
			a class on how to have a healthy pregnancy, change a diaper, the
			basics of nutrition, basics of mental health and discipline.

				comment score: -1 | u/None
				[removed]

					comment score: 1 | u/Jasontheperson
					You really like to call people fascists don't you? Alt right shit
					heads don't get to tag anyone here.

	comment score: 57 | u/snarkerposey11
	Dude, you don't have to get married.  Stay single and be awesome, but
	may I suggest that you drop the "women are conniving grifters"
	attitude from your belief system entirely?  First it's dumb and it
	makes you look silly, second it will not serve you well in life,
	single or married.  Instead, focus your objections on the instituiton
	of marriage and why there is no necessary reason to participate in it
	anymore for men or women.  Sure, men get wrecked by divorce
	sometimes, but you've probably also heard of the high rates of women
	getting abused or murdered by spouses or exes, no?  That seems worse
	to me.  And if women are filing for the majority of divorces,
	marriage can't possibly be that great for them either.  Lets just
	chalk it up to marriage is an outdated historical institution that
	only really suits a minority of men and women thes days.  No need to
	add a bunch of garbage about Eve in the garden with the snake.

	comment score: 46 | u/MaybePaige-be
	> I did some research, and found the figures you all know about. What
	really struck me was veterans returning home from war, finding their
	wives cheating, and still losing their homes, property, custody,
	alimony  and child support (Terrence Popp is one example).   What
	figures? anecdotes aren't evidence. I was in the Army and most of the
	guys I knew married girls they'd only known 6 months, **because
	married soldiers get a pay increase**. Then they ship off to combat
	and get 12 month of "separation pay" for being separated from a chick
	they barely know. Cut to the return trip to find a relationship that
	isn't real, and since the marriage itself was basically just a scam
	against the taxpayers it's hardly unreasonable that she should get
	her half of the loot. Also what's your definition of: >...losing
	their homes, property... Because there isn't a state in the country
	that gives a higher % of assets to a woman because she's a woman.
	Many have "community property" splits, meaning that the
	house/car/investments/401k for both people are added up and split
	down the middle. This doesn't benefit women, it benefits the lower
	earner; and even then it's in place specifically because of
	situations where the husband will pressure his wife to stay home and
	raise kids for 20 years, then he gets a few promotions (with her
	supporting him and his family without pay) and divorces her for the
	secretary and claims she doesn't deserve any part of the house she
	raised her kids in because his name was on the checks.
	\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ But it's not surprising
	that many men (wrongly) feel that marriage as it exists now is unfair
	to them. Not because it actually is, but because for the last 2000
	years it has been so **monumentally** in favor of men that anything
	close to fairness feels like a loss. (hint: That's what people mean
	when they talk about "privilege", the unspoken assumption that the
	way things were/are ever **was** fair without bothering to check).
	Also, sorry to be a bitch, but if you approach your relationships
	from the perspective of, > asking you for ways a marriage benefits
	the man  then your past and future divorces have nothing to do with
	your partners.   ...But it is kind of a microcosm of the issue, isn't
	it? Marriage has always been about the benefit of men, so why
	wouldn't men treat it like a transaction they're either winning or
	losing in.

		comment score: 41 | u/None
		>But it's not surprising that many men (wrongly) feel that marriage
		as it exists now is unfair to them. Not because it actually is, but
		because for the last 2000 years it has been so monumentally in favor
		of men that anything close to fairness feels like a loss. (hint:
		That's what people mean when they talk about "privilege", the
		unspoken assumption that the way things were/are ever was fair
		without bothering to check). This is worth repeating.

		comment score: 25 | u/KaliTheCat
		> I was in the Army and most of the guys I knew married girls they'd
		only known 6 months, because married soldiers get a pay increase. I
		had friends in the military growing up and this was SO common.
		They'd get married after knowing someone for a super brief period
		right after they enlist, so they barely know this person and they're
		super young-- but in addition to the pay increase, they don't have
		to live in the barracks with the others. One girl I knew got married
		to a guy in the Army before they were even 21. He got her pregnant,
		deployed for 18 months, came back, got her pregnant again, re-
		deployed, came back, and they immediately got divorced because they
		were basically complete strangers at that point. My military friends
		see it all the time.

			comment score: 10 | u/AccountWasFound
			Literately the first thing adults told guys at my high school when
			they announced they were joining the army was "don't get married
			till you are out of basic"

			comment score: 4 | u/MaybePaige-be
			Married my ex-wife at 20 after dating 6 months, lasted 4 years. :P

	comment score: 39 | u/MizDiana
	Yes. You are. It is not impossible to find a trustworthy partner. It
	is not impossible to find a spouse that makes lots of money (thus
	making you a 'risk' to her rather than the other way around). If
	you're really paranoid you can sign a pre-nup. I mean, you can
	guarantee you are alone and bitter if you want. Or you could think
	about finding an equal partner. TL;DR Your assumptions are based on
	the premise that women are parasites who bring nothing to a
	relationship but their bodies. This is false. P.S. Please don't date
	any women while you still think women are the enemy. That would be a
	crappy thing to do to them.

		comment score: 0 | u/Immediate_Currency
		I think what he is concerned about is the "power imbalance" produced
		by some gendered expectations. Usually men bring more assets in, and
		are more likely to take higher payed jobs (but less convenient or
		less fulfilling) in order to support the family.  So in this case of
		scenario, even if the woman cheat (could be considered like breaking
		the contracts), the husband is the one who loose more in the
		divorce.  However, in order to add something to the topic. I saw
		almost no one really answering his question.  Because you don't need
		to be married to enjoy LTR benefits. So what in a marriage contract
		offer enough benefits to justify the risks ? Personally, as a man, I
		have no problem with the idea of being with someone lifelong, but I
		don't want to marry because I fail to see in what ways that would
		benefits me.

			comment score: 12 | u/MizDiana
			> I think what he is concerned about is the "power imbalance"
			produced by some gendered expectations. Usually men bring more
			assets in, and are more likely to take higher payed jobs (but less
			convenient or less fulfilling) in order to support the family. I
			would believe those were genuine concerns if he said something like
			"I only want to partner with a woman who makes good income." But in
			fact he ignored my suggestion such a thing was possible. >  in
			order to support the family And what is a spouse doing in that
			situation? Sitting on her ass all day? No. Doing a lot of work.
			Should she get NO recognition for that work? Alimony is based on
			the idea that a non-working partner contributes to a relationship -
			for example by raising kids/providing support to the other
			partner's career. That's generally true.  > ​ > So in this case of
			scenario, even if the woman cheat (could be considered like
			breaking the contracts), the husband is the one who loose more in
			the divorce. Again, that only  makes sense if you ignore\see as
			worthless the work put into the partnership by the non-working
			partner. Is the labor of raising kids/enabling more time and
			attention given to the career by handling other tasks for the
			worker worth nothing to you? This is what I mean by seeing women as
			parasites. It's a refusal to value work put in & seeing their
			exclusive provision as sex as the only thing of consideration in a
			relationship. If a man's career has been significantly improved by
			having a spouse (which research consistently says is generally a
			major improvement) - that benefit to his earning capacity remains
			*even if she cheats* and that investment in him/benefit to him by
			her should not be ignored. > Because you don't need to be married
			to enjoy LTR benefits. Yes. This is obvious. And if the man is the
			primary earner, that also provides him a way to exploit  her unpaid
			labor without ever having to possibly pay back the investment she
			put into the relationship. > So what in a marriage contract offer
			enough benefits to justify the risks ? People value that for a
			variety of reasons. Including religious beliefs, the public
			statement of commitment, tax advantages (another financial benefit
			of a non-working partner being overlooked), a standardized asset-
			splitting system in the event of a breakup (which despite MGTOW
			scare stories, finding the one-in-a-million examples, is not
			weighted towards women). Other legal benefits like inheritance in
			the event of a partner's death, shared insurance benefits in some
			jobs, the ability of a partner to make medical decisions for you in
			the event of an injury. The ability of your partner (OR YOU) to get
			Social Security Benefits related to your spouse in the event of the
			other person's death (presuming you, you know, love your partner
			and give a shit what might happen to her). All of those are
			benefits people may or may not want. And that's just a partial list
			off the top of my head. > Personally, as a man, I have no problem
			with the idea of being with someone lifelong, but I don't want to
			marry because I fail to see in what ways that would benefits me. If
			your concern is only what benefits you and not what benefits your
			partner, you'd be a shitty partner in a LTR & shouldn't get married
			(or cohabit - or really date for any length of time) in the first
			place. Love involves caring about the interests of the other person
			in addition to your own interests.

				comment score: 2 | u/Immediate_Currency
				Nothing said it was an uneven relationship, and actually I was
				presuming the woman is actually working. The man could also earn
				more by living close by and doing his equal share. And i won't
				enter in the details that in my country we have a real social
				security system and can have a girlfriend benefits from many of
				these advantages. So basically the only things that change is for
				who I would mitigate the risk of a breakup. Especially, if there
				have been an equal investment in the relationship which is asked
				for by women nowadays, she is not exploited.  Also you give
				hypoagency to the woman here. Because if there is not legal
				bindings, she will probably (and she would be right to do so)
				mitigate the risks, by not letting her career suffer and asking
				for equal investment. I find disturbing how fast you forget the
				strong independant woman rhetoric to play the victim card. That's
				like saying women can't defend their own rights inside of a
				movment that does exactly that. Frankly, I'm disapointed. From
				feminists I could have expected a "yes, but you have to invest
				equally in the relationship otherwise it is not fair". Instead,
				you are guilty of reinforcing the very same gender expectations
				you are supposed to fight.  Last time I checked, it was the
				tradcons that were wishing to enforce marriage, not feminism.

					comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
					> Nothing said it was an uneven relationship, > Usually men bring
					more assets in, and are more likely to take higher payed jobs
					(but less convenient or less fulfilling) in order to support the
					family. So in this case of scenario Pick only one.

					comment score: 3 | u/MizDiana
					Also, you were the one focused your last comment on an
					traditional relationship. Don't blame me for sticking on the
					topic YOU chose. >  From feminists I could have expected a "yes,
					but you have to invest equally in the relationship otherwise it
					is not fair". From my original response to the OP - which you
					replied to, so don't claim ignorance of that post!: " I mean, you
					can guarantee you are alone and bitter if you want. **Or you
					could think about finding an equal partner.**"

						comment score: 2 | u/Immediate_Currency
						Actually, while I may have overeacted, I did not presume it
						would be a traditionnal relationships. I only presumed the man
						would take a further away or less fulfulling job. Which in no
						way means that he is not pulling his shares on another matters.
						So in that regards,  if they invest as much and they do break
						up, he would be the one loosing. And in that scenario, the man
						has every rights to be concerned about what would happen if they
						divorce that the housewife.

							comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
							> I did not presume it would be a traditionnal relationships. I
							only presumed the man would take a further away or less
							fulfulling job.  In my experience it's the opposite. That men
							generally have the more fulfilling (and more rewarding) job.
							Also, you are (again) ignoring that (on average!) his ability
							to earn was in part created by support from the spouse. TL;DR
							Yes. You can create unusual, outlier scenarios in which under
							the current laws a particular man (or a particular woman) might
							lose out. But so what? That's going to be true for any system.

								comment score: 2 | u/Immediate_Currency
								Maybe, but you reacted to my personnal choice not to marry. So
								in that matter, what the others are doing is not really that
								important.  Moreover, I don't want to base my own decisions on
								marriages that were those of a previous generation where the
								rules were not identical. Nowadays women want an equal
								partner. Fine, then that's what they will get, but I won't
								over expose myself to unnecessary risks while marriage vows
								are so commonly broken.

		comment score: -14 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
		> TL;DR Your assumptions are based on the premise that women are
		parasites who bring nothing to a relationship but their bodies. This
		is false.  My assumptions not based on that. You want them to be.
		That way you can simply disregard my stance completely. > P.S.
		Please don't date any women while you still think women are the
		enemy. That would be a crappy thing to do to them.  I view them as
		"the enemy" in marriage because they have all the power. Regardless
		of what occurs in the relationship, they are across the board,
		ultimately not responsible for any fallout; caused by them or not.
		Any woman dating me would have the choice to do so or not, I would
		not be "doing" anything to them. They are not children, but adults.

			comment score: 17 | u/IntergalacticFig
			> Regardless of what occurs in the relationship, they are across
			the board, ultimately not responsible for any fallout; caused by
			them or not.  Can you elaborate on this? I don't understand why
			women do not bear responsibility for their actions, in your view.

				comment score: -6 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
				For instance: A woman grows out of love with her husband after
				say, 20 years of marriage; this is completely fair and there is
				nothing wrong with this. They both agree on a divorce, but she has
				a right to the house bought, even if it was before the marriage,
				alimony payments despite the mutual nature of the split, and even
				half of the man's retirement fund. Responsibility, in this case,
				is knowing that when you want to leave your husband, you are also
				leaving his house, his resources, and access to his retirement
				funds.  You see, she gets to keep all of what she owns, plus half
				of whatever her ex-husband does, whether he wanted the split or
				not. That does not seem like responsibility to me, and the fact
				that this is perfectly legal and socially acceptable is worrisome.

					comment score: 19 | u/IntergalacticFig
					> Responsibility, in this case, is knowing that when you want to
					leave your husband, you are also leaving his house, his
					resources, and access to his retirement funds. You see, she gets
					to keep all of what she owns, plus half of whatever her ex-
					husband does, whether he wanted the split or not.  This is not
					how marital assets work. All property is considered "joint" (with
					some exceptions for inherited money, if it never touched a family
					bank account). Yes, the house they shared is a 'marital home',
					regardless of who bought it originally. Yes, the retirement
					assets are considered shared. Yes, any money in the bank accounts
					is considered shared -- as is any debt held by either party (even
					credit cards one spouse didn't know about!)  When a divorce
					happens, the goal is that each person comes out with half of that
					entire pile of stuff.  Her retirement is also up for grabs. If
					she bought the house before they married, she still has to pay
					him half the value. W = Woman M = Man D = Debt A = Assets So, WD
					= "Debts the woman brought into the marriage, or accrued during
					marriage" or WA = "assets the woman brought into the marriage, or
					accrued during the marriage".  Divorce Settlement = ((WA + MA) -
					(WD + MD))\2 You seem to be under the impression it is: Woman's
					Divorce Settlement = WA + (MA/2) Man's Divorce Settlement =
					(MA/2) Edit: Your point of view seems to assume that women bring
					nothing to the marriage financially, and contribute nothing
					financially during the marriage. That's just not true in most
					cases.

					comment score: 19 | u/LaserFace778
					Wrong. When people marry, they generally agree to join their
					assets. If a divorce occurs, he also gets half of whatever she
					has. Because it is not his or hers. It is THEIRS. It’s an even
					split. And alimony is rarely awarded.  If this bothers you, don’t
					marry a woman that doesn’t have a job. Don’t marry a woman that
					has nothing. Or get a prenuptial agreement.

					comment score: 8 | u/noodledoodledoo
					Comment or post removed for privacy purposes.

					comment score: 8 | u/releasethepuggin
					I don't think this hypothetical is accurate. It varies by state
					(assuming the US), but generally: If the house is jointly-owned,
					either one spouse has to buy out the other one, or they both sell
					it. It doesn't just go willy nilly to the wife. If she is the
					sole owner, sure she might get the house, but that goes for if
					the husband was the sole owner as well.  In regards to alimony, I
					assume in your hypothetical the wife stays at home and doesn't
					work? This is much more complicated and highly variable depending
					on their individual lifestyle/earnings. I don't claim to be an
					expert on this, but it certainly is not as simple as the wife
					gets half the man's money. In any case, a way to avoid paying
					alimony would be to choose a partner who makes the same as or
					more money than you, or possibly sign a prenup that specifically
					disallows alimony.  You mentioned, "...she gets to keep all of
					what she owns, plus half of whatever her ex-husband does..." This
					is simply not true, or at best a misrepresentation. Alimony laws
					are in place to prevent dependent partners from becoming homeless
					and destitute upon separation. But again, all of these horror
					stories can be avoided by choosing a partner who will work and
					not be a SAHM (not that there's anything wrong if a couple does
					choose to have a SAHP), and by choosing not to merge finances.
					Trustworthiness and financial responsibility should also be
					things to look for in prospective partners.  I am not married,
					but here are some reasons why I would like to be married in the
					future: I view relationships as looking for a partner (an equal I
					can respect and care for) that will be on my team and with whom I
					can share life for hopefully the rest of my life. Marriage is an
					important aspect of that. If my partner is dying/incapacitated in
					the hospital, a boyfriend/girlfriend can't always visit and can't
					okay lifesaving medical procedures, but a husband/wife can. If we
					chose to have kids, marriage provides important legal and
					financial benefits, as well as stability for said kids. To me
					it's also symbolic of deciding to choose commitment to this one
					person. Of course there's risk that down the line it won't work
					out, but that's why it's a big decision people make after years
					of dating. Nobody *has to* marry though, and you're free to
					choose never to get married if you don't value these things.
					However, A) there are valid reasons to get married besides social
					pressure, and B) there are many ways to protect yourself from
					being taken advantage of in divorce if that's something that
					concerns you. I would keep in mind though that many places on the
					internet are alarmist and skewed, and better places to find
					information are legal and government websites.
					https://info.legalzoom.com/typical-divorce-settlements-20636.html
					https://farzadlaw.com/divorce-in-california/what-are-typical-
					divorce-settlements
					https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/divorce-
					grownups/200806/divorce-settlements-are-very-predicatable?amp#ref
					errer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com&amp_tf=From%20%251%24s

						comment score: 2 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
						I am very analytical. Perhaps too much so. I am trying to put
						marriage and relationships in a box, which is something I
						realize I tend to do a lot. I will take your advice and look
						into those links. Thank you.

			comment score: 12 | u/Firebrass
			Nobody’s disregarding your stances completely, that would mean
			simply ignoring you, but you also can’t ask to have your past
			commentary set aside for your question because that past commentary
			informs us of your current paradigm/ how to answer you. And a lot
			of us have a fundamental problem offering you the kind of
			insightful answer you’re seeking because, for you to compare and
			contrast genders in any arena without demonstrating how you can
			empathize with the group you’re not a part of, well that indicates
			that you’re not capable of the empathy needed to change your mind
			about social dynamics involving that group in a handful of unedited
			paragraphs.  I mean, I’ve watched my grandfather and grandmother
			have a long, healthy, mutually beneficial, greater than the sum of
			it’s parts marriage, and when I hear you talk about the woes of
			divorce as a reason for not getting married, it’s like saying the
			possibility of dying before fifty is a reason for not having kids -
			I can think of other better reasons, but nothing supersedes
			personal preference on the issue. Maybe make the goal finding a
			human you can spend a lot of time with and still enjoy, rather than
			marrying a willing mate, and then not worrying about other people’s
			failing or thriving relationships. P.S. Where do you stand on gay
			marriage? How about husbands who transition during an existing
			marriage?

			comment score: 9 | u/MizDiana
			> My assumptions not based on that. You want them to be. Sure,
			buddy: "You see, you all assume that when he brings this up, she
			will just reduce her spending and all will be well. Textbook
			ignorance. Yes, it could happen, but if it doesn't and escalates OP
			is finished. He knows it, that's probably why he deleted the post.
			I'm going to guess that it's the family courts that determine just
			how much of that retirement plan is "his" and how much is "hers.""
			TL;DR I could go on, but suffice it to say we have access to your
			post history. Lying about your views isn't going to fly. > I view
			them as "the enemy" in marriage because they have all the power.
			LOL. Based on what fantasy? Are you unaware that laws regarding
			marriage and divorce are gender neutral? You claim you don't want
			to be trapped in your bubble, but you refuse to believe anything
			other than the lies your bubble tell you. P.S. I reiterate my
			request: please, PLEASE do not have any kind of relationship with
			women until you regain your sanity. (Which even you have stated is
			suspect: "Some shorter lady at a grocery store asked me to get
			something from the top shelf, politely I must add. Any other time,
			I would have done it instinctively. But instead it felt like I had
			to control every atom in my being to get it for her. "If we're so
			equal then why not grab it yourself? I mean why would you ask your
			oppressor for a favor? With a smile no less..." Yeah... This is the
			stuff that was going through my mind. If it was a shorter dude I
			would not even hesitate. "I know that this anecdote is totally
			insane. Maybe I am developing mental issues because of this.").

				comment score: 2 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
				I am aware that you have access to post history, so it does make
				sense that you would quote them and smear this post. I cannot
				control that, and this was deliberate. Doesn't mean I have to
				appreciate it. All of what I said, I stand by, which is why I said
				them; they align with the idea that women can legally get away
				with what they shouldn't, and that I am frustrated with this. I
				see no lying here. You see lying, as you put it, would be using
				another account with no history for all to reference, and post
				using that. Well... believe it or not I have l learned more from
				this than I hoped. My mind and sanity are mine alone thankfully.
				Your requests, just like mine I would imagine, hold no weight. I
				will regain my sanity, but I imagine it would not be as you'd
				prescribe.

					comment score: 10 | u/MizDiana
					> I am aware that you have access to post history, so it does
					make sense that you would quote them and smear this post.  > All
					of what I said, I stand by So I'm smearing you and you stand by
					your statements? Pick one. They can't both be true.

						comment score: 4 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
						I stand by past statements. And no it is not smearing me like I
						said, that was wrong. I do admit that. I will also like to admit
						that the resentment towards all women for the sake of being
						women is unhealthy and toxic, by definition. I am working
						through it, and intend to come out better on the end. Those are
						past statements, which I cannot deny were said, so I must stand
						by them.

							comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
							Sounds like you're working on improving yourself. A noble
							endeavor. I hope it makes your life better.

					comment score: 8 | u/360Saturn
					You're getting downvoted not as much for your views (although
					they don't paint a pretty picture), but for the confrontational
					and argumentative way you're coming across. The fact that you're
					doing that while tarring all women with the same pessimistic
					brush, while aware that you are engaging actively *with* multiple
					women who are taking time out of their day to engage with you,
					just doesn't all come together as a great impression dude.

	comment score: 17 | u/dude_icus
	As for the fact that you can theoretically get married without any
	planning whatsoever, that may be mostly true that you can legally do
	that so long as both partners are over the age of majority, but that
	doesn't mean you have to. There are classes as another user
	mentioned, or therapy. You don't have to go to couple's counseling
	because there is some massive problem; you can go to try and ensure
	that there are no massive problems right now, that you are both on
	the same page, and to open those lines of a dialogue when inevitably
	something does go awry. As for divorce, it is disingenuous to say
	that women don't suffer or never suffer from divorce, and I'm not
	even talking just emotionally. Half of all custodial parents do not
	receive any child support; [when you separate out just custodial
	mothers, 47.7% of them are not awarded child support by the courts.](
	https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2016/d
	emo/P60-255.pdf) From the same source, custodial mothers are far more
	likely to live below the poverty line than custodial fathers or when
	both parents share custody. Of course, the easy solution to this
	problem is don't have kids. Divorces without children are far less
	painful than divorces where there are children. [Also, women are more
	likely to file for bankruptcy following a divorce than men
	are.](https://scholars.org/brief/how-filing-legal-bankruptcy-affects-
	womens-health) But if you are worried about alimony, there are always
	pre-nups. If you two make a contract beforehand about how assets will
	be divided, then the court will always go to that first. Also, fears
	about alimony are probably overstated as we have no good data about
	alimony anymore. The last time the census took data about alimony was
	in 1989, and a lot has changed in 30 years. Other studies have shown
	that while alimony was far more common in the 60s and 70s, it has
	shown a precipitous drop since the 80s. [While data is thin, less
	than 1 in 10 divorces now involve alimony,](https://scholarship.law.d
	uke.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1194&context=djglp) mostly due to
	the fact that most women today work and even make more than their
	husbands. Also, [your likelihood of getting a divorce is much lower
	than the average.](https://www.mckinleyirvin.com/family-law-
	blog/2012/october/32-shocking-divorce-statistics/) You have an
	education, so you are less likely to get a divorce. I am assuming
	that you are probably at least 21 years old. If you wait until you
	are at least 23 years old to get hitched, that decreases your
	likelihood of divorce. You work in the STEM field, so you probably
	make over 25k a year, so again, another drop for you. If you wait to
	have children until after you are married, then again, another drop.
	I'm not saying the horror stories aren't true, but the vast majority
	of men who get shafted by the system are not while, middle class,
	college educated men. They are young, poor, uneducated, and/or
	black/Hispanic men. Finally, I really think if you are this against
	married, just don't get married. No one is saying you have to.
	Marriage rates are declining. [However, if you want a perk that is
	exclusive to men, men are more likely to be hired and given raises if
	they are married.](https://www.businessinsider.com/how-being-married-
	makes-you-more-successful-2016-7#marriage-results-in-a-pay-premium-
	for-men-3)

		comment score: 4 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
		Thank you for that, honestly. No I am not against the idea of
		marriage, but I am trying to see past all of the nonsense that could
		happen, legally as well. Which is why I'm here. I am aware that no
		one is saying I have to be married. I was  raised to do just that,
		but I had to find out for myself all of the major pitfalls of
		marriage, and how common they were. This, to me, suggested
		intentional subterfuge. I believe my mind is much clearer on the
		matter now.

	comment score: 15 | u/360Saturn
	For all your framing, this reads more as > I don't want to get
	married, am suspicious of women as a bloc, and am extrapolating my
	feelings and concerns onto the rest of the population. If you don't
	want to get married, just...don't. Are you even in a position where
	this is an issue on the horizon for you?

		comment score: 6 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
		How do you pose questions about something on your mind, without
		extrapolating your feelings and concerns onto the rest of the
		population? Yes, that is precisely what I did, and I do every time I
		ask an honest question to those with differing opinions. I framed it
		that way to make clear that I have strong biases, I even outright
		said so. I am questioning marriage, so yes, this is an issue on the
		horizon for me.

	comment score: 12 | u/mochiplease
	You do realize that the divorce rate for military is equal if not
	actually lower than civilian counterparts? Not to mention that there
	are male military spouses?  Overall, women actually fare better
	healthwise after becoming widowed. Women without children or husbands
	have better health and happiness rates. Overall, men suffer more
	drawbacks from not being married - health, happiness, socially,
	economically - than women.  Really think about why this is happening
	for women.  Besides the crux of your issue being a general distrust
	of women, maybe consider researching why marriage is a political
	reality.

		comment score: -8 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
		I see now, I mean I did, but now it is clear that having views that
		oppose others already removes my ability to ask questions while
		having them.  >  crux of your issue being a general distrust of
		women  Women in marriage, not women in general. I do not think any
		man should submit his sovereignty, well-being, and happiness to a
		woman who needs not reciprocate in any fashion. There is an easy out
		for most women in marriages. You cannot expect a man to dim his
		drive for self-preservation with the stats being as they are, and
		trusting a woman with that much power over his livelihood; unless
		you deem her having legally enforced authority over him to be
		untrue.

			comment score: 12 | u/mochiplease
			You asked questions, you're just not happy with the responses.
			Maybe self reflect on that.

				comment score: 2 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
				I will.

			comment score: 11 | u/IntergalacticFig
			I'm sorry, I really don't understand several aspects of your point
			of view.  > I do not think any man should submit his sovereignty,
			well-being, and happiness to a woman who needs not reciprocate in
			any fashion. Why doesn't the woman reciprocate? Isn't marriage
			equally legally binding on both parties?  >There is an easy out for
			most women in marriages.  What "Easy out"? How is it different than
			any "easy out" afforded to men? >unless you deem her having legally
			enforced authority over him to be untrue. I do not think marriage
			gives women any legally enforced authority over men. While marriage
			is a legal institution, I don't understand the point of view that
			it elevates the woman above the man.  Can you elaborate on how you
			came to hold these views, or why you believe these things to be
			true?

	comment score: 9 | u/ChaosQueeen
	It really just comes down to your relationship with your wife. If one
	(or both) of you is unable to sustain a good relationship or
	unwilling to be faithful, that is of course unfortunate, but that's
	not the fault of marriage. Of course marriage is going to fail if you
	marry the wrong person, or if you are the wrong person yourself. The
	only real benefit of marriage I can think of is that it's basically
	the greatest compliment you will ever receive and give. Like, someone
	who knows you better than almost anyone else loves you so much she
	wants to spend her entire life with you and vice versa. Don't you
	think that's nice? If everything goes according to the plan, you're
	going to spend the rest of your life with someone you love. Also I
	don't think marriage benefits the woman more than the man. Sure, I do
	feel sorry for those veterans finding out their wives were cheating,
	but what about pregnant women finding out their husbands cheated?
	They would still have to give birth to the kids, raise them as single
	mothers, and feel guilty for the kids only having one parent. They
	would also have a hard time finding a new partner as many men think
	single moms are trashy or they fear the responsibility that comes
	with a kid while a divorced guy can go right back to dating when he
	wants to. Divorce hurts everyone involved, not just the man.

		comment score: 7 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
		> Divorce hurts everyone involved, not just the man.  Undisputable

	comment score: 10 | u/None
	First of all, viewing marriage as an outdated concept or something
	that won’t work for your own lifestyle is okay. Lots of feminists
	agree with that statement and decide to forgo it for their own
	reasons.  As I see it (and this is just my opinion that I don’t share
	with all feminists), marriage nowadays seals an emotional and
	committed bond between two people in law. It’s your choice what you
	do before or after marriage. As long as everyone in the relationship
	is happy and consenting, it’s a healthy marriage.  But it sounds like
	your views on marriage aren’t just based on the outdated
	institution... it sounds like they are based on a distrust of women.
	I think you need to reassess your views on women first, before you
	bring marriage into the mix. Believe it or not, women aren’t out to
	take advantage of you for money or cheat on you.  If you find
	yourself running into this kind of problem in your relationships,
	then maybe it’s time you start reassessing the type of people you
	attract or fall for. It’s easier said than done, but finding a long-
	lasting committed relationship is not impossible. Step one is being
	open and respectful. Respecting women isn’t just holding a door open
	for us or telling us we’re pretty. You need to start trusting us and
	seeing us as your equal.  A healthy relationship is made of
	communication and mutual respect. To answer your question, that is
	what a “man gets out of it”. You get a loving relationship with
	someone that trusts and feels committed to you.

	comment score: 9 | u/Quinn_The_Strong
	Oh it's certainly a great *commitment* for both people, with serious
	risks if it doesn't work out. That's not unique to men, though.

	comment score: 8 | u/KazanTheMan
	What differences in risk would men face that women would not in
	getting married?

	comment score: 5 | u/IntergalacticFig
	Marriage is a risk, for any human, male or female. When you marry,
	you're joining yourself financially and legally to that person. Their
	participation in your life shapes the opportunities you will (or will
	not) be able to pursue. Sheryl Sandberg is a garbage human in many
	ways, and her book Lean In is rightly decried as "white feminism",
	but she brings up the point that if you marry -- and who you marry --
	becomes one of the most important career decisions you can make.
	Marriage can bring great opportunity and financial stability: your
	spouse can support you while you get that degree you need for your
	dream job, or you can work a job you love that has crap benefits
	because your spouse has a stable job with great health insurance. If
	you're fired, your income is halved, but not reduced to zero. If you
	take a job with a huge time commitment, your spouse can help
	alleviate the labor at home. And of course, splitting living expenses
	is a major boon, though you don't have to be married to split the
	rent.  Marriage also carries financial risk. If you marry someone
	with different goals than you, they may hold you back from an
	opportunity you want to pursue. They may have different spending
	priorities, and run up a ton of debt. They may have addiction
	problems and spend all your money on that. And in those cases, you
	may end up in much worse financial shape than if you were just
	single.  But at some level, marriage requires trust. Some marriages
	end in divorce. Some marriages end in acrimonious divorce. But many
	do not -- and even where there is anger about the end of the
	marriage, there is not necessarily "vengeance".  i am divorced. My ex
	has a higher income, more retirement in the bank, and he kept the
	house (which means he has equity, and a lower cost-of-living than I
	do). I didn't touch any of that, because I didn't care. I make enough
	to support myself, and I didn't want to spend money on lawyers just
	to wring him dry. My goal was to not be married anymore, not to fuck
	him over. It is not like a woman automatically gets "everything" in a
	divorce. She has to fight for it.  Also, divorce doesn't care much
	about "man vs woman". It cares a lot about "high income vs low
	income". A woman and man who make about the same? No one is going to
	take either person to the cleaner's on that divorce. A divorce where
	the man has financially supported the woman for a decade? He will be
	expected to pay her half of the marital assets. It doesn't matter who
	earned it initially, it is "family money".  So, all that means: If
	you marry, marry someone who shares your values, so that even if it
	doesn't work out, you know she is not the kind of person who would
	harm you. Marry someone who treats you with respect. If having equal
	financial contribution is important to you, make that a priority in
	your marriage, which may mean that you and your wife have to take
	turns putting your career first.  Your concerns about how all women
	are cheating whores are catastrophizing. Yes, some women cheat. Some
	men cheat. And to that end, I'd share some advice I recently shared
	with a male friend of mine who felt himself buying into the miasma of
	misogyny on the internet:  1. You're hearing the "bad" stories.
	People with long, happy marriages, or whose relationships ended
	amicably, don't write about it on the internet much.  2. You're
	hearing a male-dominated perspective. Women cheat on men. Men cheat
	on women. But if you move in circles dominated by the voices of men,
	you will hear a lot more of the former than the latter. It isn't that
	the latter isn't happening, it's just that you aren't hearing about
	it.  3. You're only hearing one side of the story. Maybe the man got
	divorced and the woman stayed in the home... but maybe the down
	payment on the home was paid for by money she inherited from her
	grandmother. Maybe she left someone who seems like "a good guy", but
	behind closed doors he was abusive.

		comment score: 1 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
		My concerns are not that "all women are cheating whores..." I mean,
		I'm  not sure why you would come to that conclusion. If a man cheats
		on his wife, he should not get her house, alimony payments, child
		support, or any of those financial benefits. If he should choose to
		end the relationship with a no-fault, then he should simply pack up
		and leave. That's what I'm getting at. There is no reason why that
		should be the case which is why the contract makes very little
		sense. No person should have that much power over another regardless
		of whether or not they use it. That, I can never agree with. "But if
		you move in circles dominated by the voices of men, you will hear a
		lot more of the former than the latter."  Yes, of course. But what
		you never hear of, is men cheating on their wives, and getting
		legally and financially rewarded for it. Whether it be in a male-
		dominated perspective or otherwise. This is my point. Only a tiny
		percentage of men (3%) get financial reward via alimony. 97% of
		alimony payments are made by men, to women. How is anyone suppose to
		view this as merely a "risk?" You must know that most men in
		divorces are responsible for all lawyer fees as well. I mean, yes,
		you do have to fight for it, but the risk vs reward is more reward
		vs reward...

			comment score: 6 | u/IntergalacticFig
			> If a man cheats on his wife, he should not get her house, alimony
			payments, child support, or any of those financial benefits. If he
			should choose to end the relationship with a no-fault, then he
			should simply pack up and leave. That's what I'm getting at. There
			is no reason why that should be the case which is why the contract
			makes very little sense. During a marriage, as I discuss in the
			first half of my comment, you make financial decisions assuming you
			are a unit. He takes a lower paying job that allows him to care for
			the kids so she can commute to a high-paying job an hour away. She
			inherits money and uses it as a down payment on a house.  So, if
			you dissolve that contract, you must fairly dissolve the financial
			situation from when you were married. None of that stuff is "his"
			or "hers". It is "theirs". And thus the whole pile should be
			divided evenly between the parties leaving the marriage. Divorce
			should not be punitive. It should just be fairly dividing debts and
			assets, and dissolving the marriage so each person should move
			forward.  Am I correct in understanding that you disagree with that
			point of view? You think that divorce should "punish" the person
			who chooses to end the marriage? What if it's a mutual decision?
			Also, do you have statistics on the percent of divorces in which
			alimony is awarded? I'd be curious about that. If, say, out of 1000
			divorces, 100 end up with alimony and 900 do not, I think that
			sheds a different light on the gendered division of alimony, vs if
			500 of 1000 end in alimony. (It should also be noted alimony
			traditionally benefits women because they traditionally sacrifice
			their career to raise kids. If we dismantle gender norms so that
			childcare and financial contributions are no longer gendered, I
			would expect that number to even out) Finally, I'm curious if you
			are opposed to any longterm, cohabitating relationship? What if
			you're with a woman for 10 years, and you've bought a house
			together, share expenses, and then break up. How would you expect
			property to be divided?

				comment score: 1 | u/RhizonXXVII (OP)
				> Also, do you have statistics on the percent of divorces in which
				alimony is awarded? I'd be curious about that. If, say, out of
				1000 divorces,  Being honest, any figures I can come up with on
				the percentage of divorces ending in alimony would not be
				reputable enough. The percentages of alimony payers is the only
				figure I can stand by firmly enough. So yes, you are right, there
				is some added nuance I am missing, that much is clear. > Finally,
				I'm curious if you are opposed to any longterm, cohabitating
				relationship? What if you're with a woman for 10 years, and you've
				bought a house together, share expenses, and then break up. How
				would you expect property to be divided?  If you've bought a house
				together, share expense and the like, then the property should be
				divided in court. The problem stems from the idea that the court
				may favor the party that makes less, and it tends to do so. Unless
				you both have the exact same income and assets when you start,
				someone is getting the short end of the stick after the split,
				because as you've said, once you marry everything is on an "ours"
				basis. Believe it or not, LTRs and cohabitation are the healthiest
				routes in my mind. I cannot fight anyone on the idea that they are
				the best for raising children either.   Thank you for your time.

			comment score: 3 | u/LaserFace778
			It doesn’t matter if the man cheats. If he is the custodial parent
			then he absolutely should be getting child support. Why are you
			eager to punish children for something they had nothing to do with?
			And if he put his career on hold for his wife’s career then maybe
			he should get alimony.  And there is no such thing as his or her
			house. It is their house. The assets need to divided fairly.

	comment score: 1 | u/rubymiggins
	[Companionship and partnership are good for
	you.](https://www.health.harvard.edu/newsletter_article/marriage-and-
	mens-health)

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 0 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed;
		this is your only warning.

	comment score: -22 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 0 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed;
		this is your only warning.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 11 | r/AskFeminists | u/Roe1996 | 40 comments | 2019-07-18 | https://redd.it/cezt66
POST TITLE: What did you think of Aziz Ansari's apology?
I might be a little bias but I found Aziz's apology really hard to swallow.
I'm happy he acknowledged it, and didn't defend his actions, but he didn't actually apologise. He never said he actions were wrong or that he regretted it. The closest he got was to say it "made him think". 
Maybe I'm being unnecessarily worried, but with this in the public eye and him not saying it was wrong, other people might believe actions like that are morally ok, which could mean others getting hurt in the future.

	comment score: 31 | u/BeckyLynch2020
	I like how he said he felt humiliated, embarrassed, terrible, etc.
	It’s not that I want to enjoy his misery or anything like that. It’s
	just that’s the appropriate response when you’ve wronged someone. He
	didn’t mean to wrong anyone, but he did, and he feels bad about it.
	Guilt is a good thing. It means he feels shame. He’s not some
	sociopath who can just call her a liar or blame her for what
	happened.  It’s my understanding that the woman forgave him (I may be
	confusing him with someone else.) But if she did, and he feels like
	he’s reached a point that he needs to forgive himself and move on, I
	personally am willing to accept that.

	comment score: 21 | u/soulwrangler
	I don't blame him, I don't blame her, I blame society as a whole. We
	need to raise our boys to learn to ask, not just take and to be more
	intuitive. We need to raise our girls to be more assertive and less
	accommodating.

	comment score: 16 | u/tigalicious
	Based on the arguments I've seen in this sub, and are probably going
	to happen on this post too, there are already lots of people who
	think what he did was okay. And it doesn't take much to feed
	confirmation bias... I kinda feel like if it wasn't this it would
	just be something else. And if his apology was more apologetic, those
	same people would just convince themselves that he was *forced* to do
	it by the mean comedy-censoring feminists. So... meh. People are
	gonna think what they want. I feel that it's important to try to
	reach people, and to keep an open mind yourself as well, but I'm not
	up for the energy expense that worrying requires.

		comment score: 8 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
		Probably a healthy view to have. I'll try my best to follow you.

		comment score: -13 | u/gilletefeminism
		>confirmation bias do you think you are immune to confirmation bias?
		this is called blind spot bias.

			comment score: 19 | u/tigalicious
			Did I say anything that indicated that I thought that? Or are you
			just lobbing accusatory questions at people and seeing what sticks?

				comment score: -3 | u/gilletefeminism
				we all swim in biases. its like being a fish and calling out
				another fish for swimming in water.

					comment score: 12 | u/tigalicious
					Ok? So water sounds like a pretty important topic for ALL fish to
					discuss.

					comment score: 12 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
					Ok so you’re not technically wrong but do you really think that
					we should never point out another person’s bias?

						comment score: -11 | u/gilletefeminism
						its basically like starting a statement by saying "in my
						personal opinion"

							comment score: 11 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
							What’s like that?  Sorry, I’m losing the thread a bit.

			comment score: 8 | u/KaliTheCat
			You couldn't even spell "Gillette" right? If you were going to make
			an account specifically to antagonize feminists? At least TRY.

				comment score: 6 | u/tigalicious
				Maybe the name was taken? It was a hot topic for awhile.

				comment score: -6 | u/gilletefeminism
				pedant

					comment score: 8 | u/KaliTheCat
					I'll admit to that.

						comment score: -8 | u/gilletefeminism
						its also why people stopped taking feminism seriously

							comment score: 5 | u/IntergalacticFig
							Really?? Feminism is ruined because Kali pointed out your
							spelling error! Amazing!

			comment score: 7 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
			Sorry, do you mind explaining what your point is here?

				comment score: -8 | u/gilletefeminism
				you know when jesus says, "Let anyone among you who is without sin
				be the first to throw a stone at her." ?

					comment score: 11 | u/jessnichfraz
					Proceeds to not explain, while alluding to the fact that you
					can’t complain about anything unless you’re perfect. L.O.L.

						comment score: 15 | u/KaliTheCat
						That user has been banned.

							comment score: 9 | u/jessnichfraz
							Ohh nice! Thanks!

	comment score: 7 | u/sierradoesreddit
	I appreciate the fact that he acknowledged it. He didn’t pretend it
	didn’t exist. And he said it made him think about things which
	honestly is HUGE. To me that’s what the #MeToo movement is all about
	- getting people to think about their actions. Things are definitely
	changing and moving in the right direction because of dialogues like
	this. A decade ago men weren’t owning up to sexual assault and
	harassment like they are today. Unrelated but this whole Epstein
	thing going on - Acosta said before stepping down that honestly
	victims of sexual assault just weren’t treated with respect or given
	consideration when they got the case 10+ years ago. So slowly but
	surely things are changing and people are realizing it’s not ok to
	behave in certain ways. I think that’s a good thing, Definitely not
	perfect - but progress nonetheless. I think the more people
	reconsider their biases and behaviors the better. Also want to add -
	victims of sexual assault and harassment still are not treated with
	respect or consideration on the whole. But the more people speak up
	the more things will (hopefully) continue to improve.

		comment score: -2 | u/orbitaldecayed
		There is a flipside though. The McCarthyite fear and paranoia has
		been bad for women in business. There's been a number of suicides
		too, Jay Cheshire and his mother, Karin for example. Maybe it will
		abate, time will tell, but I think women and men trust each other
		much less in general now.

			comment score: 2 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
			I don't think that should be a reason for victims to not come
			forward.

				comment score: 1 | u/orbitaldecayed
				Agreed. The problem stems from online mobs seeking to destroy the
				lives of the accused before facts have been verifiably
				established. Mob justice causes far more problems than they think
				they are solving.

			comment score: 2 | u/BayAreaDreamer
			Maybe you're projecting. When I distrusted men, it was because of
			all the men who'd actually harassed or assaulted me. Now that more
			people are talking about these things openly, I'm hopeful things
			can start to change.

				comment score: 1 | u/orbitaldecayed
				Yes thing are already starting to change. Some for the better, in
				terms of workplace harassment. Some for the worse in terms of
				normal workplace relations between the sexes.

					comment score: 1 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
					What do you mean by normal workplace relations between sexes?

						comment score: 0 | u/orbitaldecayed
						In Netflix, for instance, it is now an offence of some kind to
						look at someone for more than 5 seconds. That is bizarre and
						probably unworkable (particularly for lighting, camera and other
						technical persons). Why would such a draconian and specific rule
						be introduced? Are more rules like that on the way for all of
						us? The paranoia and stress would be palpable at a place like
						that, I would consider it abnormal. As for what *is* normal,
						well **not that** anyway. Plus there's all this 'report all
						suspicious behavior' stuff that comes off like East German Stasi
						propaganda.

							comment score: 1 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
							I think that's staring silently at someone, not just looking at
							someone while you're having a conversation. Imagine how strange
							that would be haha. I get the confusion but yeah they just mean
							don't stare at people.

	comment score: 4 | u/lisavieta
	I detested his new stand-up. I mean, there were some good jokes
	there, but when he actually talks about how his last year was (in the
	end bit of his routine) all he talks about it's how much it made him
	grow, how it made him not take things for granted and how scared he
	was of loosing his career. It's all me me me and there is nothing
	there that made me think he actually took the time to think about how
	his actions impacted the woman he hurt. I was rolling my eyes the
	whole time.  The guy simply refuses to acknowledged that what he did
	was messed up.  He makes it sounds like that his episode of sexual
	misconduct was actually a good thing because it made him a better
	person. Ugh.

		comment score: 2 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
		That's how I felt. There was no regret, no remorse.

	comment score: 2 | u/RogueConsultant
	Ah ok that’s worse than what I’ve reheard, sounds like he crossed a
	line

		comment score: 1 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
		Some articles cherry picked her account in order to downplay what
		happened. I don't know why.

	comment score: 1 | u/Dreidhen
	I found his reflection earnest and his regret genuine. I personally
	believe it was a matter of miscommunication. You can never disprove
	someone's allegation of assault and it's better to by default to
	listen before judging. But based on what I read I don't think A.A.
	assaulted the person. Ultimately,  the only persons' opinions about
	the issue that matter are that of himself and the woman.

		comment score: 1 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
		See that's the thing, do you not think it's wrong that he continued
		to follow her after she continually moved his hand away and walk
		away? Do you not think that it was wrong he told her to give him a
		bj after she explicitly said "I don't want to feel forced"?  And if
		you don't, others don't, and this whole thing will be repeated. If
		he were to accept his actions as wrong, others might see it too and
		society could change for the better.

	comment score: 0 | u/RogueConsultant
	I felt like he was trapped into making an apology by error of
	miscommunication / lack of judgement.  Didn't she even say once he
	got the message he was perfectly respectable?  No other women have
	come forward with AA stories to show a pattern of him being an abuser
	either.  Personally, I think she's creepy and her casual insults to
	his ability to 'wine and dine' her disgust me a little.  Perhaps
	she's racist?

		comment score: 1 | u/Roe1996 (OP)
		Well, I could just never imagine signalling for someone to give me
		oral is ever ok after they've explicitly told me they want to slow
		down and don't want to feel forced is ever ok. And practically
		chasing someone around the room when they keep moving my hand away?
		No, just seems so wrong to me.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 7 | r/AskFeminists | u/tbk1999 | 35 comments | 2019-03-06 | https://redd.it/ay0oku
POST TITLE: Why is it that when men have traits that are negative, feminists associate that with "toxic masculinity" but when men use their masculinity in positive ways, instead of associating that with positive masculinity, it's traits that "anyone can have"
I completely understand and agree that masculinity can often be used in negative ways, and can understand many of the points made by feminists about that, and I agree with most of it. I only have an issue with the fact that when positive traits associated with masculinity, such as aggression when used to defend people and be a protector for people, doing a lot of hard physical work to provide for people you care about, and other positive masculine traits are presented, it is often argued that that shouldn't be associated with men or masculinity, as women can have these same traits. But when we're talking about toxic male behavior, that is considered to be only associated with toxic masculinity, as opposed to being associated with being an asshole. Which of course, anyone can be an asshole. And most men would absolutely agree that there is nothing masculine about sexual harassment, violence, etc. Do you not see a bit of a bias there? Why do the negative have to be associated with being a man and being masculine, but the positive is just associated with just being a good person, whether male or female? Many of the toxic behavior that is being taught to men are often things that women have presented. Things like hiding your feelings, I have seen women admit to doing that plenty of times. Or believing that fighting and being violent earns you more respect as a man, I have seen plenty of women brag about fights they have been in, even seen women post compilations of recordings of their fights on twitter, or when they needed to teach another woman a lesson about talking to "their man" or any toxic behavior like that. I have even heard about a porn star admitting on twitter to raping her date to lose her virginity, and she laughed about it. To which not many people talked about it, and she still to this day has a successful porn career. So why is the good associated with being a good person, but the bad is strictly associated with toxic masculinity?

	comment score: 12 | u/begonetoxicpeople
	Because nothing about gender roles or personality is actually
	inherent to any gender. Women can be aggressive protective, or
	whatever else. Men can be nurturing and emotional. Toxic Masculinity
	is more an idea that gender roles are so rigid and men are so heavily
	locked into one set ideal by society as to what a 'real man' looks
	like that they have to live to its extreme. So when you say being
	aggressive is a manly thing specifically, it means that men now have
	to live up to that idea. The ideal would be to recognise gender roles
	are bullshit and stop using them. By letting people decide
	forthemselves what they want to be, without saying its 'not manly
	enough' (or of course the opposite, 'thats a mans job not a womans
	job').

		comment score: 4 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
		Most of the traits being taught to boys are positive, but only the
		negative is being acknowledged and associated with masculinity.

			comment score: 10 | u/None
			>Most of the traits being taught to boys are positive Yeah, and
			they are traits that should be cultivated in girls, too. What's the
			issue?

				comment score: -1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
				Okay so with this being said, do you not believe that boys should
				be taught to do things like hold the door open for women or pay
				for their date, or other things like that that society usually
				expects a man to do? Do you want everything to be completely
				neutral?

					comment score: 10 | u/None
					***Why is holding a door open always the go-to example with
					this?*** If there's a person behind you, hold the door for them.
					The person who asks the other person out should pay. If one
					person picks the restaurant and it's a bit pricey, it'd be more
					polite to pay then too. If you agreed to go out and to a specific
					place mutually, you could just go 50/50. Gay people exist and
					they have helpfully figured all this out for you– it's a lot less
					complicated than it's made to seem.

						comment score: 3 | u/ConfoundedClassisist
						>Gay people exist and they have helpfully figured all this out
						for you– it's a lot less complicated than it's made to seem. I
						love you

						comment score: -1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
						Well of course holding the door isn’t the only example. There
						are also things like pulling a chair back for a woman, giving
						your jacket to a woman if she’s cold, or even being the person
						to propose. All being very very good things that boys are
						usually taught. And the thing that sort of confuses me is why
						feminists have an issue with these things, even though most men
						don’t mind doing these things, and most women look at it as
						being a kind and gentlemanly thing to do, as opposed to a way of
						belittling them or viewing them in any sort of negative way. And
						as far as gay couples go, at least from what I’ve seen in most
						cases, there usually is a person in the relationship that is the
						one primarily doing the things that I listed. And even if that
						isn’t the case, of course no one is saying these things are a
						requirement, they’re more of standards put in place for men to
						be kind and gentle. Using their physical strength advantages for
						good instead of for violence. Which I think is a great thing.
						But feel completely free to correct me if I’m getting anything
						wrong.

							comment score: 4 | u/None
							>Well of course holding the door isn’t the only example. There
							are also things like pulling a chair back for a woman, giving
							your jacket to a woman if she’s cold, or even being the person
							to propose. All being very very good things that boys are
							usually taught. Yeah, great– but it's equally as romantic and
							sweet if you reverse the genders in all those situations... (I
							don't know how women feel about pulling-out-their-chair-for-
							them though in this day and age– I've heard some women describe
							it as patronising.) >And the thing that sort of confuses me is
							why feminists have an issue with these things They don't.
							Provided, of course, that you're not holding a door open for a
							woman because you think women are too weak and dainty to manage
							it themselves. Being polite is fine, it just shouldn't be
							gendered.

								comment score: -1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
								As a man who has done these things for women before, I can
								confirm we do not think to ourselves “Let me hold open the
								door for her, because she’s probably too weak to do it
								herself” we know that women are more than capable of doing
								these things themselves. We’re just taught to be gentlemen.
								And I don’t see that as an issue because since generally
								speaking, (not always,) but generally, men do have a physical
								strength advantage over women. So teaching men to do these
								things for women is sort of a way of being like “Hey, since
								you’re stronger than most women, instead of using that to take
								advantage of them or be violent towards them, why not use it
								to help them and do kind things for them?” And I don’t see why
								that sort of standard needs to go away. Again, correct me if
								I’m getting anything wrong.

									comment score: 11 | u/None
									>So teaching men to do these things for women is sort of a
									way of being like “Hey, since you’re stronger than most
									women, instead of using that to take advantage of them or be
									violent towards them, why not use it to help them and do kind
									things for them?”  ... It's a fucking *door*. You're not
									moving a boulder for someone.

										comment score: 0 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
										Obviously yes, but i see it as being the thought and the
										gesture that matters. And these small things that make it a
										standard for men to do much bigger things. A man most likely
										is not going to want to do anything bigger if he isn’t
										taught from a young age to do much smaller things. If that
										makes sense? But this is just the way I see it. It’s nothing
										definitive.

		comment score: 2 | u/None
		Yeah, you're not wrong– like I said before, if you wanna help
		someone and it's a kind gesture, that's great. But there's
		absolutely no reason that should be a gendered trait. A woman can
		hold a door open for a man, too. A woman can pay for a date if she
		wants. A woman can propose marriage to her partner. When feminists
		say "positive traits of masculinity can just be traits anyone can
		have", we don't mean "Men shouldn't be polite and kind"– we just
		mean they shouldn't necessarily be tied to masculinity as a concept
		as some standard men must live up to and women, by definition,
		cannot embody. Equally, positive traits of femininity (such as
		emotional sensitivity) should not be exclusively gendered either.

			comment score: 1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
			I think these sort of gestures being mainly pushed on men is sort
			of a way to actually combat toxic masculinity in a lot of ways. One
			of the things about toxic masculinity is men see their physical
			strength and see it as meaning it’s manly to win in fights and do
			violent things with their strength. Instead, society is trying to
			say that it’s even manlier to use your strength for good things.
			That’s not to say that all people shouldn’t do good things, but
			it’s mainly men who are encouraged because of our biology having us
			not only have more physical strength, but also be more aggressive.
			So people have been trying to teach men to control that and use it
			for good. This might be a weird example, but it’s sort of like
			saying Black Lives Matter instead of All Lives Matter. Of course
			absolutely no one is saying all lives don’t matter, but black lives
			are being talked about in particular because of the treatment that
			they specifically have been having to deal with. So when people
			encourage men to be kind and gentle and do these things, no one is
			saying all people shouldn’t do it, it’s more of calling us out
			specifically because of our size and aggressive tendencies. I’m not
			saying this is the best way to do it, I’m more of explaining why
			it’s done and why I feel as though it’s not bad.

				comment score: 2 | u/None
				>I think these sort of gestures being mainly pushed on men is sort
				of a  way to actually combat toxic masculinity in a lot of ways.
				... I mean... not *really*. Because what you're describing has
				always been an aspect of masculinity. They're not new ideas that
				work to "counter" traditional ideals of masculinity; they
				***are*** the traditional ideals of masculinity. "It's polite for
				the man to pay on a date" is an aspect of traditional male gender
				roles. Toxic masculinity is when masculine traits manifest in
				toxic or harmful ways, e.g., "I paid for the date, therefore, she
				owes me." Or, "It's my role as a man to pay, if she offers to pay,
				I'm emasculated and therefore have less worth as a man...
				Therefore, I shouldn't let her pay, even if she's just trying to
				be nice." Now, it's not that men shouldn't be encouraged to pay on
				a date to be polite; it's just that it shouldn't be viewed as
				inherent to their masculinity because that's the true cause of the
				problem here.

										comment score: -1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
										And most women do not take offense to it at all. Most women
										view it as a very sweet thing for a man to do. And most men
										love doing these things for women.

		comment score: 2 | u/None
		>And most women do not take offense to it at all. Most women view it
		as a very sweet thing for a man to do. Yeah, and it should also be
		viewed as an equally sweet thing if a woman opens a door for a man.
		We're not saying "Don't open the door for anyone" or "Don't be
		polite"; we mean "This shouldn't be viewed as an aspect of
		masculinity or inherent male behaviour that women can't embody."

									comment score: 3 | u/MizDiana
									All those things are romantic and good. But they're romantic
									and good because you're a person showing care for another
									person. Not because you're checking off the boxes for what
									your gender is supposed to do according to the "rules". This
									post also serves as a response to your below statement "And
									most women do not take offense to it at all. Most women view
									it as a very sweet thing for a man to do. And most men love
									doing these things for women."

					comment score: 9 | u/Tardimpala
					Yeah we should taught children to be nice to other people
					regardless of gender.

					comment score: 3 | u/MizDiana
					Seriously? Would you not hold open the door for a guy if you were
					gay and on a date? Why shouldn't a woman hold a door open for you
					while you carry the groceries?

						comment score: 1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
						Why can’t she carry the groceries while I hold the door open?
						That wouldn’t be weird, would it?

							comment score: 2 | u/MizDiana
							She can. It wouldn't be weird.

								comment score: 1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
								So as a woman, you would be perfectly fine with having a big
								strong male partner say “You carry all of the groceries, I’ll
								hold the door open”? And if so, why? I understand if you want
								equality, which is perfectly understandable and respectable,
								but realizing that some people have certain advantages does
								not mean you are being unequal.

									comment score: 2 | u/MizDiana
									> So as a woman, you would be perfectly fine with having a
									big strong male partner say “You carry all of the groceries,
									I’ll hold the door open”? Uh... yes. I'm not going to tear my
									arm out of the socket carrying some chicken into the house.
									And anyone good enough for me to date would have a reason
									they're not helping me carry part of them in. Needed to pee,
									missed the dog, had a phone call to make, really, really
									hates the smell of something I bought. Whatever. Like...
									seriously, why would I have a problem with that? It's not
									like I'm vacuuming and need help moving a couch or something
									that's genuinely heavy.

	comment score: 9 | u/CrazyCoat
	Okay, this is a lot to unpack, but damn it, I'll try.    First off,
	masculinity and femininity are murky, confusing concepts that, to
	some people, may even be totally obsolete. The reason for this is
	because most of the traits we consider masculine/feminine can be
	embodied by people of any gender.    So why is "Toxic Masculinity"
	such a buzzword, if masculinity isn't real/doesn't matter? Let's get
	into that.    "Masculinity" refers to our stereotypical ideas of male
	gender roles. Eg. Physical strength, analytical intelligence,
	confidence, etc.    These are expectations that, whether we like it
	or not, mainstream society attaches to men, and judges them by.
	(Which is something many feminists want to change, because again, any
	person of any gender should be who they are.)   "Toxic Masculinity"
	is the idea that certain aspects of this "culture" have kind
	of...mutated over time into something very dangerous and worrying.
	For example:   Ideal Situation: "People of any gender should approach
	potential partners if they want to form a relationship."
	Traditional Masculinity: "It's a man's job to 'make the first move',
	because men are supposed to be the confident ones."   Toxic
	Masculinity: "Men should be *aggressive alpha dogs*, and any man who
	isn't an over-the-top seduction artist is a beta cuck loser."   What
	started out as a wrongheaded, but comparatively harmless\* idea has
	turned into an insane dogma, one that hurts *everyone.*   *And the
	really effed-up thing is,* ***it's a self-perpetuating cycle.***
	Because if you're a man, and you try to point out that all this
	fratboy crap is legitimately harmful, the guys who live and die by
	this stuff'll call you a weak-ass white knight SJW beta soyboy blah
	de blah de blah.    Anyway, I hope this helps. If I'm being unclear,
	please let me know and I'll try to elaborate.    \**Comparatively.* I
	know all too well that sexism sucks, I'm just saying there's a
	difference between "Classic! Awful Sexism" and "Super Saiyan Red
	Pill! Sexism".

	comment score: 8 | u/AP7497
	Toxic masculinity does not mean ‘negative traits that men possess’.
	Toxic masculinity means ‘harmful behaviours and standards that men
	are expected to live up to simply because they are men’.

		comment score: 1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
		I understand that, but most traits that men are expected to live up
		to because they are men are positive and helpful and gentlemanly.
		But the only ones being acknowledged are negative.

			comment score: 6 | u/AP7497
			Those traits aren’t exclusive to men, and they’re not expected to
			live up to them because they’re men.  Being good human beings is
			something expected of everyone, men and women.

				comment score: 1 | u/Abyssal_Axiom
				No trait is exclusive to any gender, be they positive or negative.
				But if you can acknowledge the negative ones that society
				specifically expects from men I see no reason to not acknowledge
				to positive ones too.

					comment score: 1 | u/AP7497
					Can you give me examples for these traits?  When I mean negative
					behaviours expected out of men simply because they’re men, I’m
					referring to things like ‘boys don’t cry’. It’s harmful (to boys
					and men, mostly). That’s what toxic masculinity means.  And ‘boys
					don’t cry’ is a behaviour that is exclusively expected only from
					men.

						comment score: 1 | u/Abyssal_Axiom
						I know what you mean, but feeling like you shouldn't cry because
						you aren't supposed to or that it's a sign of weakness isn't a
						trait purely limited to just men. 'Boys don't cry' is just a
						gendered way of saying that crying is a form of weakness that a
						person shouldn't give into. But saying things like 'real men are
						brave/confident/whatever' is also a gendered way of expressing
						an equally neutral trait, one that just happens to be positive
						(usually).

	comment score: 8 | u/selfishstars
	I can see why it might look this way, but I think there's some nuance
	that's being missed. First, many feminists believe that traits (good
	and bad) are gendered in our society when they shouldn't be. While we
	consider things like strength, competitiveness, courage,
	independence, violence, etc. to be male traits, plenty of women have
	traits as well. And we consider being nurturing, communicative,
	empathetic,  emotional, catty, dramatic, etc. to be feminine traits,
	plenty of men have these traits too. What we'd like to see is people
	moving away from seeing these traits as gendered and instead, to
	encourage the traits we see as positive, and discourage the ones we
	see as negative, in all people (or encourage these traits to be used
	in healthy ways in all people, since some traits aren't necessarily
	positive or negative, it depends on how they are used).  So, this is
	talking about how we personally view these traits and hope to
	encourage the rest of society to view these traits... as non-
	gendered. When it comes to toxic masculinity, this is a critique of
	the way that society views certain traits as masculine and encourages
	these traits in men to an extent that can be damaging to both men
	themselves and to the people around them. So, for example, if society
	says that men should be strong and unemotional, and encourages these
	traits in men, it can result in men not being able to express their
	emotions in a healthy way. That might mean that they don't seek help
	for depression, or that they end up expressing/dealing with their
	emotions in unhealthy ways, such as developing issues with anger,
	violence, or substance abuse.  So the point is that we DO NOT think
	that these negative traits are inherently masculine.. only that
	SOCIETY encourages these traits in men in ways that can be
	detrimental to men and to the people around them. And yes, women may
	display these traits as well, but they generally aren't encouraged in
	women in the same way that they are as men.

		comment score: 1 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
		I know what I'm about to say may be very controversial among
		feminists, and of course keep in mind, I don't mean any harm in what
		I'm saying, and you are more than welcome to correct me on anything
		that I say, as I may be wrong about it, but I personally don't
		believe that there is anything wrong with good gender roles, as I
		believe that there are certain things that due to the biological
		differences between men and women, there are certain things that men
		do better than women, and women do better than men. I don't see
		anything wrong with acknowledging and embracing the differences
		between men and women. And saying that one gender does it better
		than the other is not to say that the other gender CANNOT do it, or
		even that they can't do it very well, It's just to say that because
		of our biology, there are certain things that they have an advantage
		in. I believe we absolutely need masculinity and femininity. That
		being said, I don't see an issue with encouraging boys to have
		certain traits that society would consider to be masculine in a good
		way, and girls to do things that are considered more feminine.
		Because again, there are certain traits that one would portray
		better than the other. Of course at the end of the day, if they get
		older and decide to choose a different path, that's completely up to
		them, and I 100% believe nobody should be judged for the way that
		they act, just as long as they aren't harming anybody, but I don't
		see why encouraging certain behavior in boys more so than girls, or
		in girls more so than boys, because of us acknowledging the
		beautiful differences between men and women would be a bad thing.
		And again, I'm not trying to be disrespectful at all, and again,
		feel free to express your view if you think I am getting anything
		right or wrong.

			comment score: -3 | u/tbk1999 (OP)
			And I feel as though the goal of feminism nowadays is more to prove
			that women can do the same things that men can do, instead of
			trying to prove that women are amazing in their own way.

				comment score: 7 | u/None
				Not who you were responding to but... The whole “women are amazing
				in their own way” sometimes leads to a separate but equal mindset.
				Like, “Women are so good at nurturing and compassionate stuff.
				That’s why they make such good teachers and nurses. Men are better
				suited for leadership and more demanding jobs. They’re both
				equally important, they’re just different.” It’s not a coincidence
				that the stereotypically male professions tend to pay more. It’s
				not a coincidence that men are more likely to be promoted over
				women, even in female domain aged professions.  Feminists don’t
				want separate but equal. We just want the equal part. That means
				recognizing that men can do the nurturing, compassionate stuff and
				women can do the leadership, demanding jobs just as well as each
				other.

	comment score: 3 | u/None
	I use to be a bartender. If I served 100 people in a day, odds are
	only 5 would be assholes. Those 5 would be the ones I remembered. The
	other 95 were just normal, nice enough people that would just fade
	from my memory. Basically what I’m saying is that if someone’s
	behaving in a toxic manner, I notice and say something. If I don’t
	notice or say anything to you, it’s great that you’re not an asshole,
	but I’m not going to pay you on the back just for clearing that low
	bar.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 7 | r/AskFeminists | u/terrorkat | 24 comments | 2019-02-01 | https://redd.it/alzz9s
POST TITLE: Is there an alternative to the term homophobia?
I noticed a lot of people lately, especially folks with disabilities and mental illnesses, who don't like the suffix -phobia to describe hatred of some kind. Since phobia is the greek word for fear, they feel like it's downplaying the hate against minorities that is actually going on. Also they argued that the term is ableist, since phobias are an actual medic condition which shouldn't be confused with being an asshole.
I can see where they are coming from, so I decided to get rid of that kind of language. It was very easy for me to find a replacement in my native language, however I've been thinking about how to proceed in English. Is there a straight up alternative that I don't know about or would be best to go with a phrase like "prejudice/hatred against homosexual people"?

	comment score: 4 | u/bravehonest
	i can’t really think of any word out there that are as well-
	established/specific as homophobia/biphobia/lesbophobia/etc.  making
	up a new word would just lead to confusion, and perhaps a lack of
	specificity.

	comment score: 7 | u/queerbees
	> I noticed a lot of people lately, especially folks with
	disabilities and mental illnesses, who don't like the suffix -phobia
	to describe hatred of some kind. Since phobia is the greek word for
	fear, they feel like it's downplaying the hate against minorities
	that is actually going on. Also they argued that the term is ableist,
	since phobias are an actual medic condition which shouldn't be
	confused with being an asshole. Who exactly are these "a lot of
	people"? I've never heard of this.

		comment score: 3 | u/terrorkat (OP)
		It's been mainly Germans. I can give you links to some of their
		statements if you'd like that.

			comment score: 3 | u/kage-e
			I would also be interested in these links, please.

				comment score: 5 | u/terrorkat (OP)
				Alright, let's do this. [Here](https://fsrgs.blogs.ruhr-uni-
				bochum.de/nachdenken-ueber-sprache-1-warum-homofeindlichkeit-
				keine-krankheit-ist/) is a blog post from the student council of
				gender studies in my university. Look for the term
				["Homofeindlichkeit"](https://missy-magazine.de/sprache/) and you
				will find the reason why one of Germany's most influental feminist
				magazines doesn't use the term homophobia any longer. And
				[this](https://mrosz.wordpress.com/2017/08/03/homohass-homophobie-
				homofeindlichkeit-was-denn-jetzt/) is another blog entry on the
				topic. I also managed to find a [blog post](https://tellmewhythewo
				rldisweird.blogspot.com/2015/10/homophobia-is-ableist-
				phobias.html?m=1)in English, if anyone is interested to read about
				the arguments more detailed. I hope this helps, if there's
				anything else I can do, I'll be happy to.

					comment score: 5 | u/kage-e
					Thank you! After reading the articles I think we need to
					distinguish two separate lines of argument: 1.) Homophobia is not
					an adequate term to describe the mechanism at play. 2.)
					Homophobia is an ableist term we shouldn't use. Missy and mrosz
					seem to argue more along the former line, while the other two
					seem to favour the latter. I honestly need to think a bit more
					about this issue myself before I feel I can give a firm answer. I
					can speak a bit to the first argument, since I have actually
					discussed this before. I do agree that 'homophobia' in fact does
					not accurately describe the mechanism at play. At the same time
					there is a power to that word that calls people out. If you call
					someone a "homophobes Arschloch" it feels much stronger than
					calling them a "homofeindliches Arschloch". On some level I think
					we need that power to accurately address hate against queer
					people. However, I do now wonder whether some of that 'power'
					comes from the negative association with mental illness.
					Addressing the second argument is much harder for me since this
					is a discourse I am much less versed in. Still, I wonder whether
					there might be a difference between taking a (negatively charged)
					term used against disabled people and constructing a term
					analogously to terms also used to describe psychological
					conditions. Furthermore, I am not sure "-phobia" even is still
					primarily associated with 'mental illness'. I think both
					xenophobia and homophobia are understood as very much addressing
					their specific concept. But, again, these are just my preliminary
					thoughts. I do need to think about this some more so thanks to
					bringing that issue to my attention!

				comment score: 2 | u/terrorkat (OP)
				Sure. I'll provide some as soon as possible.

	comment score: 4 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
	I’ve heard the term “heterosexism” used a few years ago but tbh
	that’s even more confusing.

		comment score: 1 | u/terrorkat (OP)
		Yes, I've read that too. Why do you think it's confusing?

			comment score: 8 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
			It kind of reads like sexism against heterosexual people. I know
			the intent was to creat a word similar to cissexism, but for some
			reason people got on board with the latter and not the former.

				comment score: 2 | u/terrorkat (OP)
				It's hard for me to see the difference as a non native speaker, so
				I'll have to take your word for it I guess. Thanks for
				elaborating.

					comment score: 5 | u/hitm67
					There's a slight difference in meaning. Heterosexism is used more
					to talk about the systems that make being straight seem "normal"
					and marginalize queer people, it's much less used for direct
					hatred. Heterosexism as a term is closer to heteronormativity
					Also, as a linguist, I disagree with the idea that homophobia
					needs to be replaced as a word--no one who understands English is
					going to be honestly confused and believe there's a connection
					between real phobias and hatred of gay people

					comment score: 3 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
					Yeah, I can see how that would be tricky. It’s definitely getting
					into the nuances of how people use words beyond their dictionary
					definitions.

	comment score: 5 | u/JohannYellowdog
	>Since phobia is the greek word for fear, they feel like it's
	downplaying the hate against minorities that is actually going on.
	The words serve different purposes. "-ism" words are describing a
	system that exists. "-phobia" words are describing the root cause of
	it. As [a wise man](https://i.pinimg.com/474x/af/6c/0d/af6c0dcf44850a
	0cf3f54064a2c476a2--star-wars-characters-star-wars-episodes.jpg) once
	said, "fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hate leads to
	suffering."

		comment score: 2 | u/terrorkat (OP)
		Sure, but if people with actual anxiety issues feel like they are
		being conflated with people who hate gay folks, and it doesn't take
		a lot to change that, why not respect their wish and work on that?

			comment score: 3 | u/JohannYellowdog
			Are you saying that people with phobias (e.g., spiders) feel like
			they are being accused of bigotry?

				comment score: 2 | u/terrorkat (OP)
				No, I'm saying they are feeling like their issues don't belong
				into the same category as those of bigots.

					comment score: 3 | u/JohannYellowdog
					But if you replace "fear" with "hate", you'll still have the same
					problem. "I hate brussels sprouts, but I don't want to be
					compared with anyone who hates gay people. I'm not a bigot". We
					all hate *some* things, just as we all fear some things. The
					problem is not fear (or hate) itself. It's where that fear is
					directed, and the consequences that it has, which matter. It's a
					"your right to swing your fist..." situation. If somebody has a
					fear of heights, that's nobody's business but theirs. But if
					somebody has a fear of gay people, that fear is going to manifest
					in ways that hurt others, and then it does become someone else's
					business.

						comment score: 3 | u/terrorkat (OP)
						That's really different though, isn't it? Phobias are medical
						conditions, not just some random fear of something. And the word
						"hate" actually describes what is going on. I just linked some
						texts arguing this case way better than I am underneath a
						different comment. Maybe check these out.

	comment score: 5 | u/g3tre3ktm8
	No; because they are afraid. They’re afraid of gay people, of the
	misconception about that you can become gay, that you can catch AIDS
	from them, even the sheer fear of not being in control of the laws
	and rules- whatever it is, it’s based in fear.

	comment score: 3 | u/OriginsOfSkye
	If you wanna try coining a new word you could probably use the prefix
	miso- like you have in misogyny. But idk if there's such a word
	already in use.

	comment score: 1 | u/thunk_harder
	well according to a stackexchange convo i just googled: -odiumic
	quality that provokes hatred; offensiveness" (from Latin odium)
	plus ic, "used to form adjectives from nouns with the meaning 'of or
	pertaining to'" homodiumic? i think phobia stands up though for most
	homophobes. sure it expresses as anger and hate, but i feel like its
	the same base "fear of other" that drives most hate edit: just saw
	english is not your native language. please don't trust me; no one
	would recognise homodiumic as a word

	comment score: 1 | u/redgears
	I’d lean toward describing the power structure that’s in place rather
	than the attitudes of those in power. Heteronormativity is a good
	term.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 4 | r/AskSocialScience | u/nlaybro | 6 comments | 2019-11-14 | https://redd.it/dwknyx
POST TITLE: Is it possible to engage in racially charged humour (edgy humour) in private in a responsible manner?
[removed]

	comment score: 12 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 2 | u/nlaybro (OP)
		Why?

			comment score: 6 | u/trpdrpr
			There are just way too many variables here.  Plus as far as I can
			think of there's no good social research method to adequately
			explore all of the factors at play in a private setting and
			provides a reliable explanations as to how *one* situation actually
			shapes attitudes in the wider society.  So there's unlikely to be
			any studies to cited here and therefore a straight answer that
			follows the rules of this sub is super unlikely.

	comment score: 10 | u/Fairwhetherfriend
	It's a hard question to answer, maybe *technically* impossible,
	because the only way to answer it is to say that I see no reason why
	it *isn't* possible, but that doesn't guarantee that it is. It might
	break Rule 2, because I don't think it's really possible to answer
	the question in a non-speculative way, because what counts as
	"responsible" will vary from person to person. However, I'm going to
	define "responsible" in a specific way for the purposes of my answer:
	here, responsible shall mean that it doesn't cause emotional or other
	harm to the target of the joke, and it doesn't reinforce attitudes
	among those present which might later, directly or indirectly, incite
	behaviour that would cause said harm. Given that, I believe the
	answer is that yes, you can, within the bounds of what I know about
	the impact of jokes on the targets of said jokes. Like I said, this
	is a hard question to answer properly, because the lack of a study
	(or the lack of my knowing about a study) showing an impact of racist
	jokes does not mean that racist jokes *don't* have that impact.
	Nevertheless, based on what I know, there is one particularly
	significant impact of prejudiced jokes that is well studied and
	understood: Prejudiced jokes make people who are already prejudiced
	*more* prejudiced:  [https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/humor-
	sapiens/201107/does-racist-humor-promote-
	racism](https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/humor-
	sapiens/201107/does-racist-humor-promote-racism) So there are two
	significant requirements for your theoretical private joke to be
	acceptable: you must be sure that you harbor no prejudice against the
	group being targeted by the joke, and you must be sure that *everyone
	else in the group harbours no prejudice*. It doesn't matter if you're
	clearly not racist - if there is even one person who is a little bit
	racist in the group, a racist joke will make them a little bit *more*
	racist, at least temporarily. The most accepted explanation is that,
	when a racist hears a racist joke from someone, even if that person
	is telling the joke ironically and doesn't believe there's any truth
	of it at all, the racist will take that as a sign that the joke-
	teller is also secretly racist, and this bolsters their position,
	making them feel more confident in the justice of their
	discrimination. So.... yes, with caution, I would say you can, but
	only if you're 110% sure that *everyone* present is perfectly on the
	same page about racism being bullshit. That can be hard to guarantee,
	so it might be best to just skip to another joke, practically
	speaking.

	comment score: 2 | u/MoralMidgetry
	This question has been removed as it's not answerable by social
	science.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 6 | r/AskSocialScience | u/Markdd8 | 5 comments | 2020-03-12 | https://redd.it/fhcctc
POST TITLE: How does Social Science view the contention that children might be better off when criminal parents are imprisoned?
[Fathers, Families, and Incarceration, Evidence suggests that children are often better off when criminal parents are imprisoned.](https://www.city-journal.org/fathers-families-incarceration-harm)
Printed in the Winter 2020 issue of NYC-based *City Journal,* an urban policy magazine  and website published by the  Manhattan Institute.   [Media/Bias Fact Check](https://mediabiasfactcheck.com/manhattan-institute-for-policy-research/) states the institute "has a right-center bias in reporting and affiliation."  Excerpts:
>A common, and emotionally potent, criticism of incarceration in the U.S. is that it harms children by taking parents and siblings—mostly fathers and brothers, since men account for more than 90 percent of prisoners—out of their homes, depriving families of caregivers, role models, and breadwinners...
>Yet the contention that incarcerating an individual is, in most cases, harmful to his family—and especially to dependent children—relies on an assumption that these individuals are capable of being emotionally supportive guardians and reliable sources of economic stability. The evidentiary basis for this assumption is shaky. Considerable evidence suggests, to the contrary, that the struggles of children of such parents...have less to do with their parents being incarcerated than with the behavior that led to the incarceration.
>Whether a parent’s presence in a child’s life is beneficial seems heavily dependent on whether that parent engages in high levels of “antisocial behavior"...Anti-Social Personality Disorder has long been common among prison inmates...According to a 2002 article in The Lancet, nearly half of just under 19,000 male prisoners surveyed across 12 countries had ASPD...Several studies suggest that exposure to highly antisocial parents and siblings hurts children in the long run—and that these damaging effects outweigh the negative effects of losing a criminal parent...

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	That there are cases in which children *might* be better off if their
	criminal parent(s) is/are incarcerated should not be controversial
	among social scientists. I would suggest that it is a trivial
	statement. Before expanding on the topic, I will point out that
	Mangual provides at the very least a partial account, although I
	would even say he built a strawman, although more subtly than others:
	the piece fails at highlighting the extensive literature on the topic
	of the effects of parental incarceration on children, while writing
	paragraphs such as the following: >Yet the contention that
	incarcerating an individual is, in most cases, harmful to his
	family—and especially to dependent children—**relies on an
	assumption** that these individuals are capable of being emotionally
	supportive guardians and reliable sources of economic stability
	[....] Well, no. This is, at least, misleading. Contentions regarding
	harmful collateral or unintended effects are not based solely on
	"assumptions" - nor the specific assumption he chose as his focus -
	regardless of how often these assumptions hold. There is more to the
	story, and there are multiple other studies which support the
	contentions cited. --- This is a topic which can be traced far back,
	as [Hagan and Dinovitzer](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1147685)
	describe: >**The first of these studies focused on the financial
	troubles and adjustments of these families**, which were found to be
	severe (Bloodgood **1928**; Sacks **1938**; see also Morris **1965**;
	Ferraroet al. **1983**). Gabel (**1992**) identifies several other
	themes in the evolution of this research literature as it relates to
	children, including the **deception and trauma surrounding the
	separation from the imprisoned parent, caretaking problems, stigma,
	and antisocial behavior** (see also Bakker, Morris, and Janus
	**1978**; Fritsch and Burkhead **1981**; Swan **1981**; Lowenstein
	**1986**). Perhaps the best known of this work is done by **Sack and
	colleagues, who studied clinical and nonclinical samples of the
	children of incarcerated parents** (Sack, Seidler, and Thomas
	**1976**; Sack **1977**). As they noted already in 1999, several
	factors should be considered (and have been considered), such as the
	children's developmental stage, and whether it is the mother or
	father who is incarcerated: >**When mothers are incarcerated,
	children often are relocated to another home, and in such instances
	the loss of a parent results in the loss of the child's primary
	parental figure.**  Also see [this
	figure](https://aspe.hhs.gov/system/files/images-reports-
	basic/68871/fig1_parke_stewart.gif) from a [2001 paper funded by the
	US Department of Health & Human Services](https://aspe.hhs.gov/basic-
	report/effects-parental-incarceration-young-children). --- Skipping a
	bit ahead to 2008, [Murray and
	Farrington](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/abs/10.1086/520070)
	concluded following a review of literature: >Compared with other risk
	factors in criminology, parental imprisonment has received little
	research attention. Yet, **it certainly is a risk factor, and its
	effects appear to be relatively strong, with multiple adverse
	outcomes** [...] >**Parental imprisonment might cause adverse
	outcomes for children via mechanisms of traumatic separation,
	economic and social strain, and stigma**, but stronger tests of
	causation and mediation are required to draw firm conclusions. >**It
	is possible that parental imprisonment is more harmful for children
	if their mother is imprisoned, if children have little social
	support, or if they live in punitive social contexts**. Further
	research is required on how the effects of parental imprisonment
	differ according to individual and family attributes and social
	context [...] In 2011, [Wakefield and Wideman](https://onlinelibrary.
	wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1745-9133.2011.00740.x) write: >Although
	obstacles persist in identifying a causal relationship between
	parental incarceration and child outcomes, researchers have made
	great strides in identifying how having a parent go to prison
	influences child outcomes (Geller, Garfinkel, Cooper, and Mincy,
	2009; Murray and Farrington, 2008; Wakefield and Uggen, 2010; Western
	and Wildeman, 2009; Wildeman and Western, 2010). **Findings from this
	new generation of research suggest that having a parent go to prison
	exacerbates preexisting behavioral problems (and other poor outcomes)
	among children**. In their contribution to the scientific literature,
	they analyzed longitudinal data in an attempt to assess the effects
	of incarcerating fathers on children's behavior and mental health.
	Per their conclusion: >Because most inmates are parents (Mumola,
	2000), the influence of criminal punishment on children is an
	important area of study. We have shown that **the overall effect of
	parental incarceration on children is harmful and that these effects
	are disproportionately borne by children who are already
	disadvantaged. Children of incarcerated parents were not doing well
	prior to the imprisonment of their father, and they are worse off as
	a result of it.** Moreover, **the resulting harm is likely to include
	several other critical domains of adjustment**—school success,
	occupational attainment, and family formation, to name a
	few—**because childhood mental health and behavioral problems tend to
	accumulate and spread over time.** At this point, I will note how
	Mangual makes use of a "case of domestic violence that went viral
	last summer" as a "vivid example" and the topic of violence continues
	throughout the piece you shared. Again, I highlight the issue with
	framing, and the skewed account: >If we assume that most fathers who
	are incarcerated were involved in criminal activity at some point,
	then how it is that mass incarceration is so bad for children? **We
	believe that an analysis of the sorts of offenders who most
	contributed to the massive incarceration rate explain why children,
	on average, do not benefit from paternal incarceration** (and why
	continuing to increase the incarceration rate also is not a boon for
	public safety) [...] >The reason that the average effect of paternal
	incarceration on children is harmful is because **the average inmate
	incarcerated today is much less likely to be a serious, high-rate,
	and violent offender than in the past.** [These two authors have
	reiterated their conclusions in a short 2018 policy brief for the
	National Council on Family
	Relations](https://www.ncfr.org/resources/research-and-policy-
	briefs). --- Commenting on the 2011 article from a policy
	perspective, renowned sociologist and criminologist [Robert J. Sampso
	n](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1745-9133.2011.0
	0756.x) urged researchers to enter a new "era": >More specifically,
	**if incarceration has simultaneous null, positive, and negative
	effects on crime depending on the pathway or population subgroup in
	question, and different time horizons of influence (ranging from
	instantaneous to long run over the course of lives), then it is
	incumbent on criminologists to think in terms of the social ledger of
	incarceration’s effects**. Therefore, I will further emphasize the
	complex web of factors. [Turanovic, Rodriguez and Pratt](https://onli
	nelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1745-9125.2012.00283.x) took
	the challenge by conducting in-depth interview of "those caring for
	children of incarcerated parents". Per their conclusions: >There is a
	complex array of consequences for the families and children of
	incarcerated parents. **On the one hand, most of the changes
	experienced by our sample of caregivers as the result of parental
	incarceration were negative**. The range of **problematic outcomes
	includes financial hardship, elevated levels of emotional stress,
	additional strains placed on interpersonal relationships, and the
	increased difficulty in monitoring and supervising children** [...]
	**On the other hand, a nontrivial portion of our sample of caregivers
	experienced either positive changes or no change at all as a result
	of parental incarceration**. Turanovic et al. stress the importance
	of also consider the particulars of the context, family systems and
	dynamics (e.g. the relationship between the caregiver and the
	prisoner, the strength of institutions of social support, collective
	efficacy, etc.). **[This continues in a second comment]**

		comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
		In 2012, [Murray, Farrington and
		Sekol](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22229730) conducted a
		systematic review and a meta-analysis, according to which: >**The
		most rigorous studies showed that parental incarceration is
		associated with higher risk for children’s antisocial behavior**,
		but not for mental health problems, drug use, or poor educational
		performance. **Studies that controlled for parental criminality or
		children’s antisocial behavior before parental incarceration had a
		pooled effect size** of OR = 1.4 (p <.01), **corresponding to about
		10% increased risk for antisocial behavior among children with
		incarcerated parents, compared with peers**. Effect sizes did not
		decrease with number of covariates controlled. However, the
		methodological quality of many studies was poor. In 2014, [Murray
		and colleagues](https://www.apa.org/pubs/books/4318126) published a
		book presenting the results "from four recent large-scale studies
		undertaken with thousands of children in England, Sweden, the
		Netherlands, and the United States": >A unique aspect of the studies
		presented in this book is the follow-up of thousands of children
		into adulthood across four different countries— England, Sweden, the
		Netherlands, and the United States. **A critical finding of the
		research is that parental incarceration can carry more or less risk
		for children depending on the social and penal context in which it
		takes place.**  They conclude that "**[t]here is no doubt that
		parental incarceration, in most contexts, represents a significant
		risk factor** [...]". Whether the relationship is causal, the answer
		is more tentative: >Specifically, **parental incarceration appeared
		to be a possible causal risk factor for antisocial–criminal behavior
		and mental health problems in England, for crime and poor marital
		outcomes in the Netherlands in the 1970s–1980s, and for crime in the
		United States in the 1980s–1990s**. However, **we concluded that in
		Sweden and in the Netherlands in the 1950s–1960s, parental
		incarceration did not causally increase sons’ own criminal
		behavior.**  On the topic of context, and to illustrate the
		pernicious effects of what may be considered well-meaning policies
		(supporting children), I would conclude with
		[Haney](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/full/10.1086/697580)'s
		"**incarcerated fatherhood**", which affects both the ability to
		desist from crime and the ability to parent: >She develops the
		concept of *incarcerated fatherhood* — **a matrix of laws, policies,
		and institutional practices that shape formerly incarcerated men’s
		relationship to parenting** [...] [To quote a brief
		summary](https://contexts.org/articles/fathering-in-the-age-of-mass-
		incarceration/): >Haney analyzes national child support policies,
		conducts court observations, and interviews incarcerated men to look
		at how **child support debt and punishment operate in a cycle: the
		“debt of imprisonment” and “the imprisonment of debt.” Incarcerated
		men accumulate child support-related debt while they are locked up
		and are subsequently punished for not being able to pay.** Haney
		then looks at how child support debt affects these men’s parenting
		styles. **Roughly 20% of the men in the study were able to fulfill
		strict child support regulations and be actively involved in their
		children’s lives, while 10% of the men were not committed to being
		involved in their children’s lives and did not pay support.** The
		**remaining 70% of fathers landed somewhere in between: simply
		broke** and **wanting to change their situations, but unable to
		because of crushing debt and imprisonment.** --- There has been, of
		course, more academic output since 2014. See for example the [2017
		report written by Martin for the National Institute of
		Justice](https://nij.ojp.gov/topics/articles/hidden-consequences-
		impact-incarceration-dependent-children) which summarizes several
		"risk factors facing children of incarcerated parents". In 2018,
		[Wildeman and Andersen](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1
		111/1745-9125.12124) exploited a Danish reform as a natural
		experiment: >Despite these limitations, this article nonetheless
		makes an important contribution not only to research on the
		consequences of paternal incarceration for children but also to
		research on the intergenerational transmission of criminality as it
		shows using exogenous variation in the risk of paternal
		incarceration introduced by a Danish policy reform that **paternal
		incarceration increases boys’ (but not girls’) risk of ever being
		charged with a crime by early adulthood.** To conclude, I quote a
		chapter from a handbook on the topic that was published last year,
		in which [Besemer et
		al.](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-16707-3_6)
		reviewed international research in regard to offending, substance
		use, and mental illness: >For all three subject areas reviewed in
		this chapter, we found that **current research on the consequences
		of imprisonment has yielded conflicting evidence in different
		countries. At the same time, the work reviewed in this chapter also
		demonstrates that across many different locations and time periods,
		children with imprisoned parents are a vulnerable population**.
		There is also **enough evidence to come to the conclusion that at
		least in some countries, for a substantial proportion of children
		and families affected, parental imprisonment compounds pre-existing
		harms in the lives of affected children**. The international
		evidence reviewed in this chapter thus creates a compelling argument
		for the need to protect children and families affected by
		imprisonment.

			comment score: 1 | u/Markdd8 (OP)
			Thanks for the detailed answer.

				comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
				You're welcome.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 5 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 25 comments | 2020-02-07 | https://redd.it/f0ig1z
POST TITLE: Is gender bias the same as sexism?
[deleted]

	comment score: 11 | u/avocado-nightmare
	To me, it matters why. The vast preponderance of commercialized media
	produced is created by Male Authors, Male Musicians, and Male
	Directors. If you've never thought about this behavior, than it is an
	Unexamined Bias, and one that largely exists because there's a
	gendered (and male) bias in the these fields already-- I'm a feminist
	and have, for the most part, also mainly\* consumed media created by
	men simply because it is the majority of the media market. To try to
	balance that, I do now go out of my way to try to consume more movies
	produced by female directors, or music with women lead
	singers/songwriters, books written by women, but I wouldn't
	purposefully not read a book, watch a movie, or enjoy a song
	*because* it was created by or was a project that was led by a man.
	Now, if you know all this and go ahead and do it anyway, or do it
	because you think that women authors, directors, and musicians are in
	some way just broadly inferior\*, you might be crossing the line from
	having an Unexamined Bias into being actively sexist.

		comment score: 3 | u/NowYoureTalking
		Wow, thank you for the detailed and well thought out response!  On
		the flip side, do you feel that going out of your way to read,
		listen or watch content created by women feels like an obligation?
		Is this how we should be choosing what to consume, based on the
		gender of the creator and not the content?

			comment score: 6 | u/avocado-nightmare
			No, I definitely have a genuine interest because I think that women
			have a unique perspective and write, and talk, and direct movies
			differently because of that, and as a woman myself I am interested
			in stories that explore those perspectives. I think the work comes
			in that women don't have their media 'sold' as broadly, and so
			sometimes finding a perfect 50/50 split can be difficult.    A good
			discussion on this is Rebecca Solnit's essay, "[Men Explain Lolita
			to Me](https://lithub.com/men-explain-lolita-to-me/)";  If you
			can't get past the title of the essay: she talks about how Nabokav
			writes the story from the perspective of Humbert Humbert (the
			titular character and pedophile); in her essay she discusses that
			most literature reviews take for granted that the reader will
			'naturally' identify with Humbert's character-- partially because
			he is the Main Character and Narrator but also because the presumed
			audience for Lolita is Male. However, Solnit identified not with
			Humbert, but with Lolita herself.  When I read Lolita, I also
			identified a lot more with the Lolita character, and thus how I
			experienced the book (and how other women are likely to experience
			the book) is very different than it would be for people who read it
			an identify with Humbert.

			comment score: 4 | u/TeaGoodandProper
			It's really telling to me that you're so resistant to even
			considering exploring female-created content, even after folks just
			explained that male-created content is the stuff most of us
			encounter easiest and first. If you don't engage with work created
			by women, why are you so sure that women aren't creating things
			you'd enjoy? There seems to be more going on here. You should
			figure out what exactly it is.

				comment score: 3 | u/NowYoureTalking
				What makes you think I’m resistant? Because I don’t make choices
				based on gender? I don’t know about you, but that’s the last thing
				I’m thinking about when choosing a movie or watching a show.
				>There seems to be more going on here. You should figure out what
				exactly it is. Lol, I didn’t realize this was Ask a Therapist,
				there’s not “more going on here”, but thanks for your insight.

					comment score: 3 | u/TeaGoodandProper
					Well, you said you don't enjoy content created by "females", and
					you appear to feel that it would be "an obligation" to
					deliberately explore women's work, that it would be somehow
					unnatural to be more conscious of the gender of the creators of
					the work you're consuming. Many posters here pointed out that
					men's work gets more marketing and more attention, so the
					"natural" way that you discover and consume media is driven and
					shaped by that, but being conscious about a creator's gender and
					trying to widen your intake still seems like a thing you don't
					want to do. Am I wrong? Most people, on discovering that they
					have been consuming media only created by one demographic, think,
					*hmm, I'll try to mix it up and see how it goes*. You seem to be
					resistant to that impulse.

	comment score: 3 | u/TeaGoodandProper
	If you prefer to listen and watch only men, and to spend time
	exclusively with men's thoughts, perspectives, and experiences, I
	think it's fair to presume that you're attracted to men. Particularly
	when you say, about media created by "females", that you "usually
	don't enjoy such content."  It sounds like you don't feel that women
	have much to offer you, and I think your wife is wise to question you
	about it. If you aren't interested in what women (that huge, diverse,
	majority demographic) say, think, or create, she must be wondering
	how that applies to her. Your gender bias might be garden variety
	sexism, where you believe in your heart that women are just inferior
	humans and couldn't possibly have perspectives worth exploring for
	you, or you might be so profoundly attracted to men that you can't
	bear to waste any of your time not devoted to enjoying men and their
	experiences.

		comment score: 0 | u/NowYoureTalking
		Sorry, I don’t think your comments are helpful and seem a touch on
		the passive aggressive side.

			comment score: 3 | u/TeaGoodandProper
			Okay, well, can't win'em all. I'll just answer your question: when
			you have a gender bias towards men and against women, yeah, that's
			sexist.

	comment score: 2 | u/Lizakaya
	Thanks for asking here. I think bias is the slightly less offensive
	sibling of sexism. Yes, it’s under the Umbrella of patriarchy.
	Standing right next to sexism.

	comment score: 2 | u/The-Dildozer
	Interesting, and I don’t have an answer for it, but it made me
	realize that a lot of the content available to us is mostly created
	by men because of a systemic sexism when it comes to publishing in
	certain areas, like movies or books. I listen to a lot of female
	music artists but the producers are mostly male. Same goes for books
	and movies - it’s hard to find a publishing company with a female
	CEO, or a movie directed and produced by a female.  So, it could be
	an unconscious bias towards your own gender, **which I don’t think is
	inherently sexist. I’m female, so I am generally more attracted to
	female-created content.** However, it is noteworthy to say there is
	more availability of male-created content in the mainstream media, so
	that could also contribute to why most media **anyone** consumes is
	male-driven.

		comment score: 3 | u/NowYoureTalking
		Yes, I feel that it is most likely a case of similarity attraction.
		And I’m glad you don’t think it’s sexist,  however, I would
		definitely feel strange looking for content with my central focus on
		gender.

			comment score: 1 | u/The-Dildozer
			Like I said, I’m a woman so I tend to be drawn to woman-created
			material,  but it’s subconscious & I don’t seek it out

				comment score: 2 | u/NowYoureTalking
				Yes, I agree with you.  :)

	comment score: 1 | u/nicosolis24
	As a woman who grew up consuming content almost entirely by men, I
	think it’s important to note that while that pattern/habit can happen
	very much by accident (due to the much wider production/availability
	of male-produced content) a feminist perspective includes actively
	working against that social norm to change it i.e. consuming more
	content by women with varied, intersectional life experiences so that
	more of that work can naturally make its way into the marketplace. Up
	until I started actively doing this, all of my favorite works were by
	men. Now many are by women. But most importantly: Women and POC are
	also very, very used to having to work to empathize with
	overwhelmingly white, straight and male protagonists. The first time
	I read a book by a woman of color I was absolutely FLOORED at how
	much more I related to the protagonist because they understood so
	much about me that  a male author never could. That doesn’t mean I
	don’t still love books by white, male writers with protagonists like
	them; it just means the world is so much more interesting and varied
	than that. If you’re a lover of books and film, it’s almost criminal
	to deny yourself incredible art because you might have to work a
	little harder to relate to the protagonist like women and POC have
	been doing for basically ever.

	comment score: 1 | u/desitjant
	Here's an easy way to tell. Let's set aside music (because you can
	have genre or vocal preferences) and movies (because you can dislike
	a movie based on it's storyline) and focus on books for a second.
	IMO E-books and self-publishing have made great female authors more
	accessible to readers than ever before, because a good author has a
	chance to claw her way up to success despite institutional
	disadvantages and bias in favor of male authors. What genre do you
	like to read? I'm willing to bet that between myself and the rest of
	this sub, we can pinpoint a kickass female author in any niche you
	throw our way. If you read it, dislike it, and can't figure out why -
	that's probably bias rearing it's ugly head.

	comment score: 0 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 3 | u/KaliTheCat
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to posted questions must come from feminists and
		reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed; you will not be
		warned again.

			comment score: 1 | u/JasonDragonbourne
			You say comment removed, so I haven't a clue if you'll see this
			response, so it is what it is. You have me curious, why would you
			assume that I am not a feminist in full support of equality between
			genders?

				comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
				Direct replies here must both come from feminists AND reflect a
				feminist perspective. You have no history in this sub, and your
				post history does not indicate any particularly feminist leanings.
				You are welcome to participate in nested comments.

					comment score: 1 | u/JasonDragonbourne
					Right, what about my post did you think made it not a 'feminist
					perspective' though?

						comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
						I'm not going to argue with you about this here.

							comment score: 1 | u/JasonDragonbourne
							Not arguing, just was curious.

		comment score: 0 | u/NowYoureTalking
		Thank you, I agree.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 6 | r/AskSocialScience | u/authprpl | 2 comments | 2020-04-27 | https://redd.it/g8x4st
POST TITLE: Are there any studies that relate an "oppressor/oppressed" conception of society with prejudice or hate against their "oppressor" group?
I am referring to the idea that people like feminists, racial minorities activists or immigration activists, sexual minorities activists, alternative identities activists, or just people who share their same views tend to hate or feel uncomfortable whith males, whites, heterosexuals or/and cisgenders. Is there any evidence for this?
I will accept studies in Spanish if you have.
Excuse me for my English.

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 4 | u/beepxyl
	[Are feminists man haters? Feminists' and non feminists' attitudes
	toward men](https://www.psychologytoday.com/files/attachments/5173/pw
	q2009.pdf) [Putting the Altruism Back into Altruism: The Evolution of
	Empathy](https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/abs/10.1146/annurev.psych.
	59.103006.093625) I think perhaps you are looking at this the wrong
	way. There have been numerous studies done on hate groups: [Mining
	communities and their relationships in blogs: A study of online hate 
	groups](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S107158
	1906001248) [The Seven-Stage Hate Model: The Psychopathology of Hate 
	Groups](https://heinonline.org/HOL/LandingPage?handle=hein.journals/f
	bileb72&div=19&id=&page=)

-----------------------------------------

post score: 3 | r/AskFeminists | u/throwaway2512252 | 4 comments | 2019-04-22 | https://redd.it/bg8lz6
POST TITLE: Power Plus Prejudice
So I am getting on in years. Growing up the definition of Racism I would give was 'Bigotry based on apparent race or ethnicity'. I have heard people use a different definition 'Power plus prejudice'. I am having some trouble getting my head around this and why it is used. My academic days are long behind me so I don't really have anyone IRL whom I could ask about this.
1) Is this complete and correct definition that people use?
2) Is this criteria commonly used in feminist circles? Is it the de-facto definition of racism or is it only situationally used?
3) I am aware there is a term Colorism that applies when someone from a marginalized ethnicity is prejudiced. Is there some criteria of what type of institutional power someone needs to have for any bigoted actions to be considered racist? Could there be such a thing as Institutional Colorism or is that basically the new definition of Racism?
4) One of the things that makes this hard for me to process is something like Trumps ban on trans people in the military. To me this meets the criteria of 'Power plus prejudice' but would be transphobic, not racist. How would this be described in feminist circles? In addition I have seen Sexism defined as 'Power plus prejudice' as well. Wouldn't it be better to make the definition of bigotry be 'Power plus prejudice' and leave racism/transphobia/sexism as bigoty based to the associated characteristic?

	comment score: 9 | u/GenesForLife
	**Is this complete and correct definition that people use?  Is this
	criteria commonly used in feminist circles? Is it the de-facto
	definition of racism or is it only situationally used?**   Nope -it
	is contextually used to separate out simple racial prejudice from
	institutional/structural racism. It is an encapsulation of the idea
	that to be racist you need to institutionalise your prejudice, which
	requires structural power. It is more that racism *requires* power +
	prejudice , not that it is power + prejudice.    **I am aware there
	is a term Colorism that applies when someone from a marginalized
	ethnicity is prejudiced. Is there some criteria of what type of
	institutional power someone needs to have for any bigoted actions to
	be considered racist? Could there be such a thing as Institutional
	Colorism or is that basically the new definition of Racism?**
	Colorism is a bit more complex - it refers to bigotry against people
	*within* the same ethnic group. This ethnic group does not have to be
	marginalised either. For example, India is a deeply colourist
	society, and even though the country is run by Indians (meaning we
	hold institutional power and aren't marginalised in the country),
	fairer-skinned Indians are treated better.    People of colour can
	also be racist against other people of colour as long as there is a
	relative privilege. "Model minorities" such as Asians (east and
	south) fit this and can perpetuate anti-black racism.       **One of
	the things that makes this hard for me to process is something like
	Trumps ban on trans people in the military. To me this meets the
	criteria of 'Power plus prejudice' but would be transphobic, not
	racist. How would this be described in feminist circles? In addition
	I have seen Sexism defined as 'Power plus prejudice' as well.
	Wouldn't it be better to make the definition of bigotry be 'Power
	plus prejudice' and leave racism/transphobia/sexism as bigoty based
	to the associated characteristic?**   You're right - power +
	prejudice is not restricted just to racism, but all forms of systemic
	or structural discrimination. Again, the formula is just to lay bare
	the elements that are make something a systemic issue rather than
	defining the systemic issue itself.

		comment score: 2 | u/throwaway2512252 (OP)
		Thank you for your answers!

-----------------------------------------

post score: 2 | r/AskSocialScience | u/bandanajack | 5 comments | 2019-04-29 | https://redd.it/biswcf
POST TITLE: To what extent can IQ tests be used as accurate and measurable means of intelligence even after accounting for differences in background?
IQ tests can be inaccurate if there are language or cultural barriers, but even past that point how else may they be inaccurate, misleading, or inherently bias etc.?
Another part of this question. Is "intelligence" more of an abstract  concept? For example, does our society measure intelligence based on specific traits we find advantageous when there are other thought patterns that require high levels of brain activity that are deemed irrelevant to intelligence purely because they serve no purpose in THIS society?

	comment score: 3 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	Intelligence tests measure whatever they are meant to measure,
	specifically a construct psychometricians call intelligence. But
	*what* is intelligence? Citing
	[Urbina](https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/cambridge-handbook-of-
	intelligence/2B2F12DF09F4EF9D965E0DC523165293): >Whether what
	intelligence tests measure is intelligence, on the other hand, is far
	more complicated as even a casual perusal of the field should reveal.
	Although many people assume that since intelligence tests exist, it
	must be possible for intelligence to be measured, **the fact is that
	intelligence is an abstraction, a construct we infer based on the
	data at our disposal and our own criteria**. As such, **it is not
	something everyone can agree on or quantify objectively**. Thus,
	**even among psychologists there is a wide variety of opinion about
	the meaning of intelligence**, depending on the perspective from
	which they approach the topic. It is ultimately a label we apply to a
	set of skills we consider representative of [what we, in our culture,
	consider intelligence](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1
	693428/pdf/15347533.pdf). As argued by [Sternberg](https://www.resear
	chgate.net/publication/8206383_Culture_and_Intelligence):
	>**Intelligence cannot be fully or even meaningfully understood
	outside its cultural context**. Work that seeks **to study
	intelligence acontextually risks the imposition of an investigator’s
	view of the world on the rest of the world**. Moreover, work on
	intelligence within a single culture **may fail to do justice to the
	range of skills and knowledge that may constitute intelligence
	broadly defined** and **risks drawing false and hasty
	generalizations.**  In sum, an intelligence test built in one context
	can be (will be) in some way unfair to people from a different
	culture, as much as we make efforts to create 'culture-neutral'
	items. For example, not all human populations value abstract thinking
	as much as we do, giving much more importance to 'concrete' and
	practical skills and knowledge. At the moment I forget who wrote
	about the following, but an example would be a tribe which cared
	little about whether or not polar bears exist, while somewhat
	conceding that if the researchers were convinced they saw these white
	bears, then they exist for the researchers, but still do not 'exist'
	for themselves (the tribesmen) - the question itself made little
	sense to them.

		comment score: 1 | u/bandanajack (OP)
		Insightful! Thank you much.

			comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			You are welcome :)

-----------------------------------------

post score: 3 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 61 comments | 2019-07-15 | https://redd.it/cdkt00
POST TITLE: Not wanting to do things because of the fear of getting assaulted...is it rational?
[deleted]

	comment score: 25 | u/sierradoesreddit
	As women we have been told our ENTIRE lives we need to protect
	ourselves from men who will do us harm. We’ve been told not to wear
	certain clothes, to carry mace, not to walk alone at night, don’t get
	too drunk, or we might get sexually assaulted, raped, kidnapped, or
	murdered. Like somehow it’s on us to make sure we don’t get hurt.  I
	would check this out: https://www.boredpanda.com/nut-kicking-analogy-
	brett-kavanaugh-
	case/?utm_source=google&utm_medium=organic&utm_campaign=organic A man
	on twitter wrote about women’s experiences from a male perspective to
	help men better understand what women go through. It’s pretty
	impactful and I thought it did a pretty good job getting the point
	across.  I don’t think the fear of sexual assault is irrational.
	Women are sexually assaulted all the time and never report it. I
	personally know many women who have been raped, molested, sexually
	assaulted, and/or harassed who have never reported it to the police.
	Men as well. People are recently starting to come out about it
	because the #MeToo movement has given women a platform to speak out
	and courage to fight back.  Personally I do not like living in fear.
	I try not to worry about being attacked but it is always - I mean
	ALWAYS - in the back of my mind particularly if I am alone and/or
	outside at night. While most people and most men for that matter have
	no intention of hurting women, there are a large number of them who
	do have bad intentions. Just look at what’s going on in the news with
	Epstein and Trump taking advantage of little girls years ago.
	Unfortunately men have been predatory toward women for a long long
	time people are just now starting to speak up about it and say “no,
	this is not right and this is not ok.” Anyways, long response but I
	hope this gives you some more perspective. Also I am very sorry to
	hear that you personally have been the victim of violence and sexual
	assault. No one deserves to be hurt or taken advantage of.

	comment score: 21 | u/Ayeprihl
	Is it rational to come here and question our rationality when you’d
	have to live under a rock to not know that women are told and told
	and told that we are responsible for the violence perpetrated against
	us? Is it really rational to question our motives when the whole
	world tells us we are responsible for men’s actions? You know what
	happens if we get raped and murdered while walking after dark? People
	blame us for being out after dark alone. People tell other women that
	this is our fault and that every other woman needs to be less
	careless. People make lame excuses about our attacker’s mental state.
	And people literally piss on our memorials.  So maybe you’re more
	likely to be robbed, but if I was murdered after dark, my family
	would have to endure months of abuse because I was a naughty girl who
	didn’t do what men told me to.  Merely for existing in a public
	space, people would remember me as the idiot who went out after dark.
	Not the victim of male violence.

		comment score: -6 | u/Poppinbrownguy
		Yep. You’re completely being irrational here.

			comment score: 19 | u/plotthick
			No, this is pretty much our reality.  It may not be your reality,
			you may not be aware of it, but that doesn't make it less true.

				comment score: -6 | u/Poppinbrownguy
				So the whole entire world is against you? Ok.  I don’t have an
				issue with what you said exactly. More of how they said it.

					comment score: 14 | u/plotthick
					> So the whole entire world is against you? Ok.  Restating
					someone else's words to make them seem stupid is arguing in bad
					faith.  Arguing in bad faith is not only rude it's against this
					subreddits' rules.  > I don’t have an issue with what you said
					exactly. More of how they said it. That's okay, I have an issue
					with how you denigrate and dismiss honest answers.  That's like
					"oh well your answer doesn't matter because you're black and
					male.  Black men don't count."  What the serious fuck.  Of course
					those answers matter, of course those people matter.  But you
					want to dismiss us because you've already decided what the
					"right" answer is?  Dude, you should be the LAST PERSON who'd
					pull this on someone else.

			comment score: 8 | u/Ayeprihl
			Please quote the irrational parts of what I said.

				comment score: 0 | u/Poppinbrownguy
				“The whole world holds us responsible for men’s actions” “My
				family would have to endure months of abuse” Try that comment
				without the sensationalism.

					comment score: 15 | u/Ayeprihl
					Ok so  1. Have you heard of Eurydice Dickson? Look her up before
					you decide that my family wouldn’t have to endure months of
					abuse.  2. Have you ever paid attention to the discourse that
					surrounds a woman’s murder or rape? Have you never seen the
					messages we are given that we should not tempt men with our
					clothes, makeup, existence, previous behaviour, etc.? Do you not
					know who is currently the Vice President of the US? This isn’t
					sensationalising anything. Pretty much every country in the world
					has some sort of idea about why a woman might deserve to be
					beaten or raped or murdered.  Just because you are blind to our
					lived experience, does not mean it is irrational. It just means
					you’ve got your head so far up your own privilege that you don’t
					care to hear about the lives experience of others.

						comment score: 0 | u/Poppinbrownguy
						1. Single experiences doesn’t speak for the general population.
						2. I didn’t say that didn’t happen. To say that *all* women get
						blamed for them being attacked is simply not true. You can’t
						equate what some dude does in bumblefuck Alabama to what some
						dude does in NY, for instance. Just because the media says that
						you’ll be blamed, doesn’t mean the general population is like
						that.  Hilarious that you call me privileged. Take a step in my
						shoes and make that comment again...

							comment score: 2 | u/Ayeprihl
							Everyone has different layers of privilege. We all need to
							acknowledge this if we want to live with any sort of empathy.
							You can deny it all you want, but you have privilege that
							others don’t have. Just as o have privilege that others don’t.
							1. I have you one example because I didn’t want to flood you
							with every single example of a woman being blamed for her
							death. If you are unaware of the plight of 50% of the
							population, I wouldn’t want to bombard you. If you do some
							research you will see this is common.  2. I’m not sure why
							you’re trying to deny that the entire planet has an issue with
							policing women’s movements so men don’t have to learn to not be
							violent... it is well documented. Once again. Learn to Google.
							I’m not really sure why you came here to ask what we think of
							you were just going to argue... did you want to know what we
							think or did you just want to have a fight on the internet to
							make you feel better about, I don’t know, women crossing the
							road or something?

							comment score: 1 | u/sierradoesreddit
							Men and women have different levels of privilege based on
							gender. White people and minorities have different levels of
							privilege based on race.

							comment score: 1 | u/charliebeanz
							> Single experiences doesn’t speak for the general population.
							>  >  There's a facebook page called Women Count USA that
							chronicles violence against women,how the media reports it, and
							the responses to it. I suggest you check it out before
							dismissing it as something that doesn't exist simply because
							you've never noticed it.

	comment score: 17 | u/Salina_Vagina
	Well, I’ve been assaulted enough times to know that assault is a
	possibility. I’m going to take precautions because getting sexually
	assaulted is scary and something no one should have to experience.
	It’s happened at work, at university, at clubs, at gas stations. My
	fear is pretty reasonable IMO.

		comment score: 0 | u/Poppinbrownguy
		What kind of precautions do you take? I’m sorry that’s happened to
		you, btw.

	comment score: 17 | u/plotthick
	>women not  wanting to (...) be raped/assaulted...is that a rational
	position  to have? Yes.

	comment score: 16 | u/DorianPink
	>Some guy tried robbing me And there you have your answer. It's
	different when you know that almost any man can overpower you if they
	so choose. If you run into the wrong man, you get raped and/or
	killed. While being a man obviously does not make you immune to being
	assaulted, at least you have a good chance of fighting your assaulter
	successfully. That knowledge allows you to feel in control of your
	fate and that feeling of control gives you confidence. A woman on the
	other hand knows that alone on a dark street she has absolutely no
	control over what happens to her if a man decides he wants something
	from her. It's terrifying and that fear is not irrational.

		comment score: 2 | u/solemnnoise
		This comment really sets me off, physical strength has very, very
		little to do with fighting off an assault. Rather what would
		determine your chances of defending yourself would be things like
		you carrying a weapon, you possessing knowledge of a practical
		martial art, or understanding your environment, etc. As someone
		whose physical strength is equivalent to literal dog shit, I've used
		nothing but tactics to get out of situations like robberies and
		group fights.  The sheer idea that you can't do something because of
		something like gender, race, or mentality, is soo sickening to me,
		and people who even spread this message are either so blinded by
		things like gender and race, that they themselves are being what
		they're fighting against (it's so fucking annoying...)

			comment score: 0 | u/DorianPink
			In a scenario where you don't have a weapon or fighting skills
			physical strenght does matter. We are not talking about robberies
			or group fights, we are talking about why women are afraid of
			walking through deserted dark alleys, especially after nightfall.
			Yes, women could carry weapons or learn martial arts and many do
			and have. I assume those women are less afraid of dark alleys. No
			one is saying every single woman can be outpowered by every single
			man, no one is saying every single woman is afraid of dark alleys.
			The discussion is solely about whether it's irrational for women to
			avoid dark alleys at night or not.

				comment score: 2 | u/solemnnoise
				My comment wasn't made to discuss whether someone avoiding
				something because of fear is irrational or not. Since at the end
				of the day it doesn't matter (you can live like a scared child if
				you want idc). My comment was made to shit on the idea of allowing
				something you can't change affect your actions. People can have a
				fear of getting sexually assaulted, that's fine with me, but if
				that fear is because of something as shallow as gender, I'm sure
				as hell going to say that the fear you are feeling is because of
				your own weakness, like many you can change it but if you start
				blaming something because of it, then your just a lazy degenerate
				whose wasting there own potential.

					comment score: 0 | u/DorianPink
					>the idea of allowing something you can't change affect your
					actions. Do you seriously think people can simply discount the
					surrounding world and society and not let any of it affect how
					you live your life?  >People can have a fear of getting sexually
					assaulted, that's fine with me, but if that fear is because of
					something as shallow as gender Are you actually being serious
					now.

						comment score: 1 | u/solemnnoise
						the idea of allowing something you can't change affect your
						actions.   To my discredit, I worded that wrong. My meaning
						behind it was to not allow something you can't change deter you
						from reaching your goals or doing as you wished whenever you
						wanted.  1) Fuck no, discounting everything around you would do
						more harm than anything. Rather, acknowledging something and
						moving around is what I believe in. (in this situation,
						acknowledging that you are a possible target of sexual assault
						and learning how to defend yourself so that you can go wherever
						you want without having to worry about the thought of it
						happening to you)  2) Yes, I'm serious.  If there something you
						can't change about yourself, it doesn't matter what you do to
						avoid what comes with it, it will always follow. (ex. As a woman
						you can't change the fact that the chances of you being sexually
						assaulted is incredibly high).  Because of how deeply rooted
						this is to your identity, there is nothing you can do about it
						that will allow you to escape from its downsides. Hence basing
						your negative emotions off it is an incredibly shallow thing to
						do. You can't change this thing, but you can change your
						emotions and perspective on the downsides themselves.  When you
						allow something you can't change blind your perspective on
						whatever is following you, your emotions on it will always stay
						the same. Meaning that allowing gender blind your thoughts of
						sexual harassment, your emotions will always stay the same, in
						this situation fearful. Thus amongst the vast perspectives, you
						can have,  you being a woman is incredibly shallow. In the
						situation, you changed your perspective from "As a woman my
						chances of being sexually assaulted are higher." to "As someone
						who doesn't own a weapon I am more likely to be sexually
						assaulted/targeted." you are now given the opportunity to change
						this fact, thus allowing to go to "As someone who owns a weapon,
						my chances of being sexually assaulted/targeted are far lower"
						thus changing your emotion from fearful to caution or readiness
						towards whatever is following.   In short: Letting something you
						can't change drive your negative emotions and actions, is
						idiotic, you won't be able to progress past whatever is blocking
						you from doing what you want when you want. Letting something
						you can't change drive your negative emotions and actions, gives
						you the opportunity to change how you feel towards something and
						move past it. (that is if you chose to take said opportunity.)

							comment score: 1 | u/DorianPink
							Following the same logic you could just avoid the dark alleys.
							Both are informed by the same fact of the surrounding society,
							both are done out of fear. Owning a weapon doesn't even make
							you less likely to be targeted, it only pontentially gets you
							out of the situation if it happens. It is also just as much
							changing your actions because of fear: you wouldn't need to get
							the weapon if there was nothing to fear. You are saying fear is
							a useless emotion that shoud not inform your actions and then
							saying it should make you get a weapon. You can't have ot both
							ways.  Once again, we are talking about if the fear is
							illogical or not, not about how you should react to it. I agree
							that never leaving your home because something might happen is
							not a good idea. But letting it inform your actions by getting
							a weapon or avoiding dark alleys is not illogical when taking
							into account the reality of the surrounding society. It's
							illogical to fear polar bears in the city, it's not illogical
							to fear being sexually assaulted.

								comment score: 1 | u/solemnnoise
								the purpose of my comment has nothing to do with the idea that
								a fear of being sexually assaulted being rational or
								irrational, but idiocy behind a certain view of thinking that
								makes the entire process worse. I just used a half-assed
								hypothetical that could fill in the blanks in the context of
								this entire thread, I even said that there could be a literal
								myriad of other possible solutions depending on perspective.
								What I said is applicable to a large number of things. Like I
								said before I don't give a shit about whether or not it's
								rational or irrational for someone to fear sexual assault.
								What I care about is allowing something you cannot change
								limit your freedom. My issue is not with whether or not sexual
								assault is a scary but this.  A woman, on the other hand,
								knows that alone on a dark street she has absolutely no
								control over what happens to her if a man decides he wants
								something from her.  This entire thing is so wrong and
								undermining that I can't stand the mentality and logic behind
								it.

									comment score: 1 | u/DorianPink
									> I don't give a shit about whether or not it's rational or
									irrational for someone to fear sexual assault. And like I
									said before, *the conversation we were having was about that
									exact topic*. You can't just butt in to talk about something
									tangentially related and then take issue with a comment made
									in the context of the original discussion. My comment has
									nothing to do with what anyone should do to avoid ending up
									in that situation, only that trying to avoid that situation
									is not irrational.

		comment score: 1 | u/magicteen1
		You’re comment is predicated on the sexist assumption that men are
		physically stronger than women. Some women are stronger than men.

			comment score: 2 | u/DorianPink
			Yes that's true and while I don't know, I would hazard a guess that
			those women don't feel the need to avoid dark alleys as keenly. I
			think we can still all agree that most men are physically stronger
			than most women.

		comment score: -11 | u/Poppinbrownguy
		This entire comment is irrational.  Because I’m a man I have a
		better chance of defending myself? What a ridiculous notion.

			comment score: 20 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
			Maybe don't ask us about how we feel and then tell us it's
			irrational? Like, it's easy to not comment on things. It's just
			like commenting, but the opposite.

				comment score: -7 | u/Poppinbrownguy
				Maybe don’t throw around sexist tropes in the form of an argument.

					comment score: 16 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
					Can you please point out what sexist trope I used in my comment?

						comment score: 0 | u/Poppinbrownguy
						Not you, person above you.  Saying that because I’m a man that I
						automatically have a better chance of defending myself is
						sexist.  That’s why I called them irrational.

							comment score: 14 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
							So you think women are physically as strong as men, on average?

								comment score: 2 | u/Poppinbrownguy
								Strength doesn’t mean much when it comes to fighting.
								Regardless, averages doesn’t matter. I already said the
								generalizations are bullshit.  But I’ll play your game If I’m
								more likely to fight somebody off because of my gender, that
								just means women should learn how to fight.

									comment score: 14 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
									Do you think the average woman could physically overpower the
									average man?

										comment score: 2 | u/Poppinbrownguy
										No.

		comment score: 9 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
		Do you think more men pose a hypothetical physical threat to many
		women than they do to many men? As in, do you think more men could
		physically overpower a woman than they could a man?

			comment score: 1 | u/Poppinbrownguy
			Those are different questions.  Men pose more of a threat to other
			men, evidenced by statistics. Men are more liable to being
			assaulted/robbed/battered than women...also keep in mind that like
			women, men tend to not report being assaulted (sexual or not) For
			the other part of your question, men have an ‘easier’ time
			overpowering a woman than they would a man.

				comment score: 10 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
				I'm not talking about statistics. I'm talking about one man and
				one woman on an empty street. Which one of them do *you* think is
				more likely to fare better in the event of an altercation? Do you
				think women are aware that men can overpower them, and that they
				(women) could not overpower the men?

					comment score: 1 | u/Poppinbrownguy
					And I’m not taking about an empty street.  One man and one woman,
					a man is more likely to fare better in an altercation. A man is
					also way more likely to being in an altercation in the first
					place, simply for being a man.  Yeah women are aware that a man
					can overpower them. Men are also aware of this fact with other
					men.

						comment score: 14 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
						So if more men can overpower women, and women are aware of this,
						and there are loads of documented incidents where a benign
						interaction became an altercation because a man misunderstood a
						smile, a nod, a 'hello,' or even the fact that the woman was
						around, wouldn't it stand to reason that women (who again, are
						aware of the potential danger men pose) would be more vigilant
						about interactions with random men? Like, I'm sorry if it hurts
						your feelings that women are wary of you. It's not personal. I'm
						going to write that again. It's. Not. Personal. It's a broad
						safety measure because it's much easier to just avoid a
						potential interaction. That's the safest option for us. Even if
						you're not going to assault us, we don't have any way to know
						that. And we don't know what will set you off. Are you going to
						think our smile is an invitation to follow us? If we say
						'hello,' are you going to grab us or worse? If we ignore you
						while we cross paths, are you going to verbally harass us or
						follow us? We don't know.  So we cross the street. Or take a
						different way.  I'm sorry if your feelings are hurt but to be
						honest, I'd rather you have hurt feelings for a minute than get
						assaulted. If you don't understand this as a legitimate reality,
						I am envious of your bubble.

							comment score: 3 | u/DorianPink
							Thank you for explaining what I meant so well. Unfortunately it
							seems they don't understand (or want to, despite asking the
							question themselves) the difference between statistics and
							daily life.

								comment score: 5 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
								Thanks! So sorry for hijacking your comment! I just get so
								frustrated about this argument. They get to live in this world
								where it's all conceptual. Real life women have to deal with
								it daily; it's not conceptual for us.

									comment score: 4 | u/DorianPink
									Indeed, I would very much like for it to be "irrational"
									since that would mean there was no reason to be afraid of
									walking home after dark. Unfortunately that's not the reality
									we get to live in.

										comment score: 4 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
										If they think it's irrational, they should take it up with
										other men and tell them to stop being fucking creeps.

							comment score: 0 | u/None
							[deleted]

								comment score: 8 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
								Hey, way to miss what I said! Great job! You might want to
								take a look at [this!](https://www.wikihow.com/Improve-Your-
								Reading-Comprehension) Otherwise, you can present me with data
								that shows that men are attacked by other men for smiling,
								saying hello, not saying hello, looking away, making eye
								contact, etc. three times as frequently as women. Thanks!

									comment score: -3 | u/None
									[deleted]

										comment score: 8 | u/MostlyALurkerBefore
										Can you point to where I implied or said I don't care about
										male victims of violence?

						comment score: 3 | u/Roe1996
						Have you ever considered that men get into more altercations
						because women are so fearful that there are much less women
						around to get into these altercations?

							comment score: -1 | u/postmanpazza
							is it so hard to recognise that not every man is strong. Thats
							all this guy is saying jesus. He agrees with you generally just
							that not ALL men.  Also if an average women kept fit and could
							run like most men would in conflict they stand a good chance
							tbh. Like if i walk alone at night I run the risk of getting
							assulted or whatever. Im not strong but im aware enough to not
							get in that situation and I can run. Its like your pushing that
							women are weak and cant do anything for themselves.

								comment score: 1 | u/Roe1996
								Did you come on here for an argument. Everytime someone gives
								a rational answer as to why we don't risk going out alone at
								night or being alone with a stranger, you call them
								irrational.  Fear is a rational reaction to possible danger.

				comment score: 1 | u/StabWhale
				>Men pose more of a threat to other men, evidenced by statistics.
				Since you are so sure of this, can you provide me the evidence the
				assault statistics are lopsided for men only because of their
				gender? It's an issue no matter the reason behind it, but if you
				truly want to determine if men "rationally" should be more scared
				than women about being assaulted you need more than "the number of
				men assaulted are higher than women". For example, looking at
				homicide statistics a large portion of that is due to gang related
				violence. This do not affect the average man at all. So you'll
				need to have a number of answers before you can draw conclusions.
				Are a large portion of assaults gang related? Are men more likely
				to be in a situation where assaults are more likely to happen?
				(for example walking alone). Etc.

			comment score: 4 | u/Roe1996
			It may seem irrational. And maybe you don't, maybe you're a
			particularly weak or small man, but men on average are larger than
			women, and size is a huge factor when it comes to fighting off an
			assailant. I wish that wasn't true, I wish I wasn't so hyper aware
			of how easy it would be for a man to overpower me, I wish I could
			defend myself but I can't. This is less about, men should feel safe
			(because the world is scary and you probably shouldn't) and more
			about the fact there's a reason women don't feel safe.

	comment score: 6 | u/360Saturn
	Most women are smaller than & not as strong as most men & that's an
	added consideration.  Ultimately not doing *certain* things is a
	small sacrifice to make to guarantee being able to live to keep doing
	all the other things you want to do. Obviously its not ideal but for
	most women who make the choice that's the rationale. Best chances.

	comment score: 4 | u/Roe1996
	I think it is rational since women (on average) are smaller and
	weaker than men. It's an uncomfortable fact, but if the average Joe
	and the avarage Jane got into a fight, the Joe would probably win.
	Because of this, if a women is jumped, they'll likely sustain more
	injuries, and be less capable of escaping their attacker. And who
	knows, a would be mugger thinks, while their at it, why not rape
	aswel?

		comment score: 3 | u/KaijuKi
		You are correct, but you are mistaken for one very important reason.
		And while I single you out, I hope this gets read by others in
		threads like these: The people mugging, robbing, raping, attacking
		and murdering you are not average joes or janes. I have extensive
		background in military and security. I have been doing martial arts
		since the age of 5 and I am in my mid 30s now. I have grown up in a
		russian-dominated ghetto and had a lot of street fights happen in
		front of me, or including me. I am sincerely glad that so many
		people here have these misconceptions, because that means you havent
		had the shitty experience of being in such fights a lot. BUT: It
		matters not ONE BIT whether the average joe or average jane is
		larger, stronger, whatnot. When a person utterly inexperienced in
		physical altercation, and a person with dangerous intent meet one
		another, the latter one will have ensured all but certain victory.
		Maybe they bring a weapon. Maybe they have training. Maybe they
		simply have a mindset that allows them to injure people without
		remorse. They very likely have done this before, know what to
		expect, know how to handle pain, have thought about it at least a
		little bit. They arent surprised. They have been the ones picking
		their target. They choose the time of the confrontation, and
		sometimes the place. They were able to ensure no support, or only
		THEIR support, is around. The difference between average joe and
		average jane in this situation is so miniscule, it doesnt affect the
		outcome.  What DOES affect the outcome is split-second
		decisionmaking, tactical thinking, and NOT BEING TOO AFRAID for
		these things. And this is what angers me: Constantly telling women
		how much danger they are in, that any man is a threat, that any
		aggression is potentially lethal danger has left so many women in
		utterly mortal fear. I have seen women start shaking in
		uncomfortable situations that were no threat, but could be read as
		such, to the point of not being able to walk. You know what? If they
		had been correct, and it WOULD have been a threat, they wouldnt be
		able to react! Stop telling people, no matter the gender, to be
		horribly afraid of so many things. It makes them LESS capable of
		handling it. It makes them MORE likely to get preyed upon.

			comment score: 3 | u/Roe1996
			That doesn't seem to make it irrational that women are scared.
			Surely it just makes it more irrational that men aren't more
			scared. If you're scared to go out when it's dark, you're less
			likely to go out and get mugged. I know that it's not necessarily a
			great way to live but my point still stands that a small person is
			completely rational in being scared to be alone with a larger,
			stronger stranger.

				comment score: 0 | u/KaijuKi
				You almost got it ;) If you subscribe to the "stranger is danger"
				mindset, then yes, never go out in the dark, never be alone with
				any strangers, never do a lot of things increasing risk.  Also,
				for a woman at least, try to limit exposure to your family, as
				most rape/coercion scenarios are among friends and family. Thats
				no way to live, IMO, but its a logical conclusion of the data
				available. Now, onto the one thing I would still question the idea
				of size being that relevant.  Due to the evergrowing obesity
				epidemic, there are a lot of big people out there. 200-250 pounds
				is approaching the be the new average for men with sedentiary
				lifestyles in some areas, and women arent far behind. That doesnt
				make them dangerous, in fact actually less so. Danger has little
				to do with size today. I would say that if you are at any time not
				very confident of your ability to handle a stranger nearby, there
				could be an argument made about feeling threatened or in danger.
				Once again, I truly believe this is no way to live, in constant
				fear of near everyone around you. But if you want to go that
				route, be afraid of anyone who seems remotely capable of beating
				you. Which means, for bigger guys, be afraid of wiry but fit small
				dudes as well.

					comment score: 3 | u/Roe1996
					You seem to think you know what you're talking about, but you
					don't. Size is a huge factor. Otherwise why are there weight
					categories is sport? As someone who is a reasonable fit woman who
					has been overpowered (with reletive ease) by an unfit man, I
					hyper aware of how powerless my size makes me. Why take any
					risks? And it's been pointed out by others that if anything
					happens if we have taken a risk, we're likely going to be blamed
					for taking that risk.  Calling women irrational, even in your
					poncy round-about way, is rude.

						comment score: 2 | u/KaijuKi
						I never said irrational anywhere. And weight categories in
						sports is an entirely different matter, because we are talking
						about two more or less equally trained individuals fighting
						under a set of rules at a predetermined time in a pre-determined
						style. You ll find that, for example, not all martial arts have
						weight classes.  I am trying to have my life guided by
						statistics, facts, research and such. Its not always possible.
						However, when I am talking to other people, I really make it a
						point not to talk opinion, unless asked to. The overwhelming
						majority of assault against women come from people they know
						(somewhere between 85-90%). The overwhelming majority of violent
						crimes are committed by a small subset of repeat offenders. 1%
						of the population is responsible for 63% of violent crime
						(source :  [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3969807
						/](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3969807/) ), so
						the most frequent case of attacks against women (and anyone,
						really) is a person they know, or somebody who has done this
						before, or both. I personally believe in protecting yourself
						from the statistically most likely events, and the events that
						have inacceptably horrible results if not protected against. Its
						the same basics as what you should get insurance for, and what
						not. I fail to see the large relevance of size or weight in any
						of these scenarios as the main issue. I fail to see how in any
						of these scenarios, avoiding of bigger people is going to be of
						any help. However, I can tell you a dozen of measures that are
						much more effective than just avoiding a big dude at reducing
						the risk of the most likely threat.  Size difference plays a
						role between two equally untrained (at fighting, not necessarily
						physical fitness. Best street fighters arent usually the best
						athletes) individuals with a similar mindset and capability. Its
						just statistically extremely unlikely that these individuals end
						up in a serious fight with serious intentions against each
						other. In short, considering most men in public a threat to your
						well-being is an ineffective measure that does not address the
						most probable vectors of threat to women, does not protect from
						the most likely reason for getting into a losing fight, but
						increases stress, social tension, limits your ability to take
						part in public life, AND leaves you even more at the mercy of
						the most likely attackers (that being your friends, family and
						partners) because you rely even more on them. I am sorry you had
						that horrible experience, I truly am. I just think its not a
						good place to come from for security advice.

		comment score: 3 | u/Poppinbrownguy
		No offense but equating robbing to rape is kind of fucked. They’re
		not even on the same playing level.

	comment score: 3 | u/ketchupp_clouds
	Woman here. I don’t think rational is the right word. Because if you
	ask, yes women are rational to be afraid of being assaulted
	considering that they are told their whole lives that (1) being
	assaulted is VERY bad and will have many life-long consequences
	(victim blaming, being seen as ruined...) on top of the psychological
	suffering of the assault itself, (2) it is very likely they will be
	assaulted (3) if they are assaulted, they will have no way to fight
	it because they are helpless and weak.  So yeah, if you think
	something bad is very likely to happen to you then it’s rational to
	be scared, and it’s not okay to shame women (or anyone) for how they
	feel. This huge fear stems from (1) the social constructs around
	assault: the idea that assault is the worst thing that can happen to
	you, victim-blaming, the idea that a good woman will be ruined if it
	happens... this adds on top of the rational fear of going through
	something awful. (2) the misconception that it usually happens
	outside and on the streets (versus at home as shown by statistics)
	and all the horror stories that make it look like the streets are
	more unsafe than they really are. (3) the notion that ALL women are
	weak and unprepared. Fear of assault is not proportional at all to
	physical weakness, so I would say that a lot of women who are
	actually quite strong and confident don’t evaluate their abilities to
	fight back accurately.  However, I think that not all fear-coping
	strategies they use to cope with the fear are very effective and
	adaptive. Again this shouldn’t be blamed on women... the media does
	not really direct them towards functional solutions like learning
	self-defense or picking up on red flags of an abusive partner.  But
	an excess of avoidance impacts women’s quality of life. Risk is
	unfortunately an inherent part of life and most bad things happen at
	random anyway... I think what you are trying to point out OP is that
	choosing not to go out at night decreases my quality of life more
	than the possible risk of being assaulted, therefore avoiding it is
	irrational. Like if I stopped talking to people in order to avoid
	social rejection. Yes of course, social rejection is possible and
	even likely, but stopping seeing other people is not the most
	effective response to that fear.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 3 | r/AskSocialScience | u/RochelleH | 6 comments | 2019-07-13 | https://redd.it/ccq051
POST TITLE: Is there already evidence that predictive policing (algorithms) is prone to producing racial bias?
I'm curious to read more (hopefully peer-reviewed) papers on predictive policing and the potential pitfalls or already proven tendency to produce racial bias in identifying potential offenders. Has anyone seen anything of the sort?
I know there are not too many live examples of this in use, and I'm not sure I agree with it ethically in general, but I find it ambitious and interesting conceptually, at the very least!
Thank you!

	comment score: 7 | u/Minyall
	[To Predict and Serve, Lum & Isaac (2016)](https://rss.onlinelibrary.
	wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1740-9713.2016.00960.x) Essentially the
	authors demonstrated that when training the predpol system on arrest
	data, the predictive policing system directed officers to
	predominantly non-White areas. When trained on data from a national
	drug consumption survey, the system directed officers to a much more
	diverse range of locations.

		comment score: 1 | u/RochelleH (OP)
		I enjoyed this. I wonder how it would play out in a more racially
		homogenous societies... It has just occurred to me that the results
		of this could be completely different where I live and show no
		racial or ethnic bias whatsoever, since the distinctions don't exist
		in clear linguistic or conceptual terms. However,  for the same
		reasons, the bias would probably end up being socio-economic. I
		suppose that the software itself tends towards bias by design... and
		what that bias will be simply depends on the context.

			comment score: 4 | u/Minyall
			Exactly, a machine learning classifier simply echoes patterns that
			already exist in the data, so if any kind of bias is introduced
			into the data at any stage the classifier will reproduce it. Indeed
			an area that had absolutely no ethnic diversity would instead
			reproduce other biases based on the arresting patterns of the local
			police. This could be based on socio-economic discrimination,
			gender discrimination, class discrimination etc.  Even in a
			hypothetical scenario of a town with absolutely no social divisions
			of any kind, you could get certain areas being classified as more
			in need of policing, simply because by chance the police happened
			to spend more time in certain areas and therefore made more
			arrests. In this hypothetical scenario, after a few years of using
			a predictive system and being directed to spend more time in these
			areas the system has its own predictions reinforced, resulting in
			stronger indications to go to those 'bad' areas.

	comment score: 4 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	Not much, per [Brantingham et
	al.](https://par.nsf.gov/servlets/purl/10058706) There is, for
	example, [Lum and Isaac](https://rss.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full
	/10.1111/j.1740-9713.2016.00960.x)'s study as cited by the other
	user, however it is important to take into account that theirs is a
	simulation. It demonstrates the *possibility*. The topic of
	[fairness](https://osf.io/k36aj/) is something that has to be
	considered when discussing proactive policing and predictive
	algorithms, and (to quote Brantingham et al.), "hypothetical
	scenarios or thought experiments, [...] succeed in demonstrating that
	careful attention needs to be paid to whether predictive policing
	produces biased arrests". --- Brantingham et al. conducted a
	randomized controlled trial in Los Angeles and concluded the
	following: >Under [the conditions in which the study was conducted]
	**we can conclude that predictive policing did not result in biased
	arrests**. Whether the same outcomes would hold given changes in
	implementation is uncertain. **If the exact same data types and
	methods are applied in a different location there may be reason to be
	optimistic**. However, **if the data types change, for example to
	focus on discretionary crimes or arrests, or if personal information
	is incorporated into predictions, then pessimism may be warranted**.
	--- If we consider the use of machines for actuarial purposes, such
	as to identify potential recidivists and high-risk offenders, as part
	of predictive policing (as
	[RAND](https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RR233.html) argues,
	predictive policing is also concerned with "using predictions to
	support investigations of potential offenders"), then there are known
	problems with the [fairness of risk
	assessments](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.09207.pdf), as
	[ProPublica](https://www.propublica.org/article/machine-bias-risk-
	assessments-in-criminal-sentencing) argued regarding [software used
	by US courts and corrections](https://www.propublica.org/article/how-
	we-analyzed-the-compas-recidivism-algorithm). However, it is
	worthwhile to note that ProPublica's analysis has been
	[contested](https://www.uscourts.gov/federal-probation-
	journal/2016/09/false-positives-false-negatives-and-false-analyses-
	rejoinder). At the same time, there are also researchers who have
	concluded that COMPAS is [neither more \(or less\) accurate or biased
	than human
	beings](https://advances.sciencemag.org/content/4/1/eaao5580).
	Therefore, the bottom line is that more research is required (as
	cliché as that sentence is), besides a discussion on which kind of
	*fairness* machines should attempt to achieve (as it is "impossible
	to satisfy all kinds of fairness" to quote Berk et al.).

		comment score: 1 | u/RochelleH (OP)
		Really great reading, thank you! I noticed some of these are
		simulated, and I suppose that's where we are right now with the
		limited experience we've had with the technology. I see some
		difficulty in ever reaching a reliable conclusion to this question,
		given the fact that an algorithm is a "living" thing, constantly
		evolving. It makes me wonder if it will ever be possible to track
		the path of intelligence an algorithm takes in its constant
		evolution and therefore claim unfair or disproportionate targeting
		of a specific group?

			comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			You're welcome :) There are several obstacles to studying the
			topic, such that these are products built by companies that have an
			interest in maintaining black boxes, then there is the fact,
			regardless, machine learning can produce outcomes without us what
			they are calculating being obvious to us.  A third issue, and I am
			quoting a fellow criminologist, pointed out to me that research on
			"fairness" in this context is not only new, but has been undertaken
			by information technology experts and the sort, who have another
			understanding of "fairness" than, say, criminologists, and who use
			another lexicon. There might be a (relatively) more literature on
			the topic on their side, with which however someone like me is
			unfamiliar (and if I were familiar with, I might not be able to
			digest it entirely without dedicating some time and effort to
			understand their field).

-----------------------------------------

post score: 3 | r/AskFeminists | u/yodog12345 | 2 comments | 2019-03-04 | https://redd.it/axdc8b
POST TITLE: Why would de Beauvoir, Deleuze, and Foucalt advocate for the abolition of the age of consent?
To preface, I don't think that my question would be of much interest to analytic feminists or liberal feminists. Not to be exclusionary, but I feel as though your reaction to this would be similar to mine, i.e. that a child cannot consent to sexual acts with an adult by definition.
---
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_petition_against_age_of_consent_laws
About this petition, and the notion of child sexuality Foucalt says
>[But what is emerging - and indeed why I believe it was important to speak about the problem of children - what is emerging is a new penal system, a new legislative system, whose function is not so much to punish offenses against these general laws concerning decency, as to protect populations and parts of populations regarded as particularly vulnerable. [...] It could be that the child, with his own sexuality, may have desired that adult, he may even have consented, he may even have made the first moves. We may even agree that it was he who seduced the adult; but we specialists with our psychological knowledge know perfectly well that even the seducing child runs a risk, in every case, of being damaged and traumatized by the fact that he or she has had sexual dealings with an adult. [...] It is therefore within the new legislative framework - basically intended to protect certain vulnerable sections of the population with the establishment of a new medical power - that a conception of sexuality and above all of the relations between child and adult sexuality will be based; and it is one that is extremely questionable.](https://www.uib.no/sites/w3.uib.no/files/attachments/foucaultdangerchildsexuality_0.pdf)
Also in defense of the petition, he highlights that his objections lie with statutory rape only, and that he was not supporter any notion of violent rape \([here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexual_Morality_and_the_Law)):
>"We took great care to speak exclusively of an indecent act not involving violence and incitement of a minor to commit an indecent act. We were extremely careful not to touch, in any way, on the problem of rape, which is totally different." 
and
>"When we say that children are 'consenting' in these cases, all we intend to say is this: in any case, there was no violence, or organized manipulation in order to wrench out of them affective or erotic relations", he completed.
I understand that a lot of postmodern theory is inaccessible unless you do the required background reading and I think I've done my due diligence in rereading Kant, Nietzsche, Heidegger, etc. but this just seems to come out of left field. I understand that maybe there's some deeper argument lurking here, but my initial reaction is that this just comes off as something you might hear a redditor say: "What if the child consents?" Okay, maybe thats just my bias speaking and adherence to my own socialized narratives. Can anyone unpack this is a more critical/charitable way?

	comment score: 5 | u/queerbees
	This sounds like an r/askphilosophy question, seeing as you've
	provided the documents for his reasoning, but need help sorting them
	out.

		comment score: 3 | u/yodog12345 (OP)
		1. Askphilosophy is suited towards a really specific type of
		question. Niche continental philosophy, especially regarding thorny
		non-metaphysical questions is not a strong suit there. 2. I
		basically get that he’s trying to contest our notion of child
		consent and restrict the definition of nonconsent to violence. 3.
		I’m asking for a *feminist perspective* on this issue.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskSocialScience | u/None | 2 comments | 2019-08-18 | https://redd.it/crx4og
POST TITLE: How does one approach giving a survey to scientists?
[removed]

	comment score: 2 | u/None
	[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 2 | r/AskSocialScience | u/Reed_4983 | 4 comments | 2019-09-05 | https://redd.it/czz5c1
POST TITLE: What sociology theories/authors have worked out how products of (popular) culture can reinforce ideologies like racism, classism or other forms of prejudice?
I recently talked to a friend about how a mainstream TV sitcom is, in my opinion, not just harmless fun but contains elements of racism and reproduces stereotypes based on people's sex, social group and looks. His response was that this didn't matter at all, since the show wasn't made to send out a message or be political, but just to entertain. It's "just a TV show" was his opinion. 
What authors or major theoretical approaches were there in the social sciences that have worked out how products of popular culture like films, shows, songs or stories are not "just a TV show" but both reproduce and reinforce beliefs and stereotypes which are already ingrown in society that can harm people? Like racism, sexism, classism, lookism or other forms of prejudice. My first thought was that it was elements of second-wave feminism which coined the phrase "The personal is political!" but I feel this is not the best fitting approach. Can you think of others?

	comment score: 3 | u/Tnznn
	You are right that "the personal is political" is not the best
	fitting approach, because this sentence is about how private life is
	governed by gender power relationships especially in the case of the
	heterosexual couple (with housework at the core). As for the core of
	your question, note that it is extremely difficult to produce sound
	evidence of the impact of popular culture. Because, well, it's
	popular. This means that you can't really control for its effects
	(this is one of the main reasons for the low quality of studies in
	video games impacts, for instance). One decent concept comes from
	social psychology and is that of simple exposure effect, which shows
	that being exposed to a content very often makes it more
	positive/thinkable etc \[1\]. However, as I said, they are flawed.
	I'll let someone more knowledgeable than me in the sociological part
	of stereotype research, but I guess you could find some answers in
	the critical side of Cultural Studies.   \[1\] [https://psycnet.apa.o
	rg/buy/2005-01818-006](https://psycnet.apa.org/buy/2005-01818-006) ; 
	[https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022103104000253]
	(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022103104000253)
	; [https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15213269.2011.596467](
	https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15213269.2011.596467)

		comment score: 2 | u/Reed_4983 (OP)
		Thank you for the thoughtful answer!

			comment score: 1 | u/Tnznn
			I'll see if I can give you some more references. I know there's the
			work of Kline and later the rest of the Birmingham school which
			studied the effects of TV and various media, mostly on young
			people, but their works do not focus on gender/racial etc
			stereotypes afaik.

				comment score: 1 | u/Reed_4983 (OP)
				Hey, did you happen to have found anything new yet? Now that I
				think of it, this could align with several feminist media critique
				videos I've seen, such as the ones that point out sexism and
				misogyny in popular culture (TV shows, films, video games and
				such). I think the argument they make is that these sexist
				elements are problematic because it's not "just a show" or "just a
				video game" but because they reinforcing existing societal
				stereotypes and therefore have an impact in the real world.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 2 | r/AskSocialScience | u/sammyjamez | 6 comments | 2020-05-24 | https://redd.it/gppy1m
POST TITLE: I would like to ask a question regarding the American culture - how come the culture and politics of America holds a lot of paradoxes?
This is not by any means an anti-American post and it is mostly an observation of the American culture. As I am sure that everyone is already aware, America has influenced everyone and the American Dream, while vague on what it really is, has an impact on everyone.  It is an ideal that is about freedom, opportunity and making a difference.However, the deeper you go when you examine the culture, the more you realise how ironically paradoxical it is.  
For starters, one should look at the foundation of America when it was formed - it was meant to be the ideal place of libertarianism, except for a few demographics who had limited rights such as women [(particularly married women)](https://ap.gilderlehrman.org/essay/legal-status-women-1776%C3%A2%E2%82%AC%E2%80%9C1830), [Native Americans](https://courses.lumenlearning.com/suny-amgovernment/chapter/civil-rights-for-indigenous-groups-native-americans-alaskans-and-hawaiians/), and the [African Americans](https://www.historyisfun.org/learn/learning-center/colonial-america-american-revolution-learning-resources/american-revolution-essays-timelines-images/african-americans-and-the-american-revolution/) (who were still slaves at the time)
* Similar to the ironies mentioned above, there are still a few mentalities that still persist even though certain mentalities have been tackled with in the past since the Civil Rights Movements such as [racism against African Americans](https://igpa.uillinois.edu/programs/racial-attitudes#section-0) (although racist attitudes have decreased throughout the decades), [attitudes towards Muslims](https://www.pewforum.org/2017/02/15/americans-express-increasingly-warm-feelings-toward-religious-groups/) (which is still somewhat in the middle, not overall positive) and [attitudes towards immigrants](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/11/12/americans-immigration-policy-priorities-divisions-between-and-within-the-two-parties/) (which is divided between both parties)
* Attitudes towards war as America is often are often divided into two - [those who see America as a global police](https://www.npr.org/2008/02/20/19180589/should-america-be-the-worlds-policeman) and while also seen as a [warmonger because of its military-industrial complex](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/325813242_Military_Industrial_Complex_A_catalyst_for_conflicts_and_wars); or similar to America being seen as advocate for peace, there is still an issue about [purchasing firearms in America](https://money.cnn.com/2015/06/19/news/guns-background-checks/index.html) and [gun control](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/1745-9133.12485) and incidents[ involving firearms in America](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-41488081)
* Attitudes towards alcohol in America are both [revered](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/americans-alcohol-study_n_598dcce8e4b09071f69932fd) yet also [stigmatised](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2998202/)
* Attitudes towards sex in America are both [revered](https://www.deseret.com/2011/7/31/20206966/sex-and-television-how-america-went-from-i-love-lucy-to-playboy-club#zooey-deschanel-top-stars-with-damon-wayans-jr-jake-johnson-max-greenfield-and-hannah-simone-in-new-girl) or [accepted](https://journalistsresource.org/studies/society/public-health/changes-americans-attitudes-sex-reviewing-40-years-data/) and also [stigmatised](http://blogs.law.columbia.edu/genderandsexualitylawblog/files/2012/04/Sexual-Stigma-and-Sexual-Prejudice-in-the-United-States-A-Conceptual-Framework.pdf) (although this study is a bit old) [or the censorship of sexual content on American media while violence is not as censored](https://sites.psu.edu/sonsini20rcl/2016/09/30/violence-vs-sexuality-the-battle-of-censorship-in-american-media/)

I cannot think of any more ironies to point out but I feel the pattern is clear - it is as though the culture of America has lots of ironies ... how come?

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 2 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	The premises of your question are problematic. You appear to be
	assuming that: 1. These sorts of "paradoxes" are exceptional to the
	US. 1. That we should expect a high degree of consistency and/or
	coherency of political ideologies and/or opinions at a national
	level. Thing is, [ambivalent attitudes](https://www.oxfordbibliograph
	ies.com/view/document/obo-9780199828340/obo-9780199828340-0254.xml)
	are common among humans on all sorts of topics, the relationship
	between [attitudes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attitude_\(psycholo
	gy\)#Social_psychology) and
	[behavior](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_planned_behavior)
	is not straightforward (the former alone is not always predictive of
	the latter) and there exist both explicit attitudes (the sort the Pew
	Research Center or Gallup measure) and [implicit
	attitudes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Implicit_attitude) (the sort
	studied by [Project Implicit](https://www.projectimplicit.net)).
	These concepts allow, for example, to appreciate [the distinction
	many researchers make between old-fashioned or blatant racism, and
	modern or subtle
	racism](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/1991-32959-001), even without
	getting into the debate about explicit and implicit biases. --- None
	of the above is unique to the USA, see for example [this paper on
	subtle prejudice in Western
	Europe](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ejsp.2420250106).
	In regard to political opinions and attitudes towards topics such as
	immigration or Muslims, see the [European Social
	Survey](https://www.europeansocialsurvey.org/findings/topline.html)
	and the [European Values
	Survey](http://www.atlasofeuropeanvalues.eu/new/home.php?lang=en) to
	appreciate the fact that there is no such thing as universal
	agreement between or within countries.  Of course, some topics are
	more or less contentious than others depending on the place, but that
	is also true for the USA. [See this excerpt from Randall Munroe's How
	To... win an election](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-to-
	win-an-election/) in which he lists several topics on which 90% or
	more Americans agree! Also note that [there is a debate to be had
	regarding political polarization in the USA.](https://www.reddit.com/
	r/AskSocialScience/comments/dc4ixp/are_there_examples_of_societies_th
	at_experienced/) The notion of increasing polarization is nothing
	new, and there are researchers who have argued that this alleged
	increase has been, at least historically, overstated, and that what
	is occurring is [*elite* polarization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
	Political_polarization#Elite_polarization) rather than [*popular* pol
	arization.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_polarization#Mass
	_polarization) Also [see this more recent opinion piece on the topic
	of polarization](https://www.vox.com/2020/1/24/21076232/polarization-
	america-international-party-political), in which Ezra Klein comments
	on a recent cross-national study on polarization, and argues that
	party polarization is internationally common, and that polarization
	in the USA is actually "reverting toward the international mean
	[...]" Then, of course, there is the matter that the US, as any other
	country regardless of their size, is not a monolithic hive-mind.
	There are many social groups in the US, each with their own set of
	needs, values, beliefs, interests and so forth. (The same is true,
	for instance, for the different *states* which make up the United
	*States*, but we can also go more atomic to counties, cities,
	neighborhoods, etc.) There are also several realities, and cultures.
	As you noted,[ there are differences according to political
	orientation or affiliation](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-
	tank/2020/04/21/how-americans-see-climate-change-and-the-environment-
	in-7-charts/) and I would argue it would be *more surprising* if
	there were *not* any, because different political parties are meant
	to embody different perspectives on what to do, and/or how to do it.
	--- In sum: what is affirmed is not necessarily what is believed,
	different people have different attitudes and not all of these are
	strongly held, movements such as the Civil Rights Movement and the
	signing of documents such as the Civil Rights Act do not "end"
	phenomena such as racism or sexism, which can have inertia and can
	also evolve. Be careful not to confuse group-level and individual-
	level data. Also, most people are not rigorous philosophers thinkers,
	or masters of formal logic. But even putting that aside, what may
	appear as "incoherent" ideas may be entirely coherent to the
	individual. For instance, an individual may consider alcohol great,
	and support a culture of drinking, but also stigmatize people who
	drink "too much", because supporting something does not mean not
	having standards, i.e. "drinking is great, but do so responsibly,
	according to proper limits". An individual may have positive
	attitudes toward alcohol, but negative attitudes toward binge-
	drinking, alcoholism, ...

		comment score: 1 | u/sammyjamez (OP)
		Well then I guess I am mistaken.  I mostly focused on the US becuase
		even though it is not my home country, it is the culture that I am
		most familiar with (well, it is the culture that I was most exposed
		to time and time again) and throughout the years, I was exposed to
		different attitudes in the US that I felt it contradicts what the US
		is meant to symbolise which is why I was so puzzled and curious

			comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			I would recommend distinguishing ideals and reality. Also keep in
			mind that two people, even from the same place!, may interpret the
			same ideal differently, and have different perceptions of whether
			it has been reached (and if not, how to reach it). That is because,
			again, people have different experiences, attitudes, personalities,
			etc. (And also, remember *sub*cultures exist.)

				comment score: 1 | u/sammyjamez (OP)
				fair enough

					comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
					Happy to help :) To be clear, many of your observations are not
					*false*, in the sense that the US definitely has many of what you
					call contradictions or ironies. For instance, the *American*
					Dream...well, it tends to be *literally* a dream according to
					multiple criteria, and it can be argued that the dream has been
					better accomplished outside America.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 2 | r/AskSocialScience | u/wannabeshitposter | 4 comments | 2019-03-26 | https://redd.it/b5nomn
POST TITLE: Is the Southern Poverty Law Center biased?
[removed]

	comment score: 1 | u/MrLegilimens
	This question is not suitable for this subreddit.

	comment score: 6 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/None
		[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 2 | r/AskSocialScience | u/verilyanton | 0 comments | 2019-05-26 | https://redd.it/bt7mzz
POST TITLE: What are the must-reads on the relation of media and stereotypes?
Which do you think are the most important books/papers/articles on the role of media in stereotypes/prejudice formation and perpetuation?

-----------------------------------------

post score: 2 | r/AskFeminists | u/deathbysocialism | 21 comments | 2019-08-05 | https://redd.it/cmjtjn
POST TITLE: is this the same thing as prejudice?
it's not much different than racial prejudice?
[https://i.imgur.com/Gdmzd9h.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/Gdmzd9h.jpg)

	comment score: 22 | u/None
	What must be understood is the context, in this case being the
	hierarchies and power dynamics built around gender in our society.
	Women in our society are constantly threatened by violence and a slew
	of other horrible things from men. As the person answering the
	question in the photo points out, this means that assuming men have
	the potential for violence against women is a necessity. This
	assumption doesn’t harm men whatsoever, and I say that as a man.
	Also, this is not a double standard, the kind of socialized and
	institutionalized violence that occurs against women does not occur
	against men.

		comment score: -2 | u/dat_n_daz
		It's not institutional, it's biological. Women are the physically
		weaker sex and are easily beaten into submission by virtually any
		man who wants to do it. Tens of thousands of years of evolution made
		it that way. Nature decided that strong women who could fight off
		men weren't meant to have their genes survive. Women's liberation
		has been tried a few times in history, for instance late in the
		Roman Republic, and also in the Arab world before the rise of Islam.
		In these cases, demographics tanked and invaders destroyed the
		civilization. Seizing power of the state to fight human nature does
		not work and will never work. Men will not defend a society that
		doesn't benefit them. They'll either check out, or rise against it.
		The patriarchal solution, marriage and families, is the only way to
		make civilization work in the long term.    Prove me wrong.

			comment score: 3 | u/None
			I have plenty of reason to believe you’re not correct, look at a
			lot of societies outside of Europe and the Middle East pre-
			colonization and you’ll find plenty of egalitarian societies which
			don’t at all fit into this description. Look at numerous Native
			American tribes such as the Hopi, for example. The idea that the
			European model of gender norms is somehow the natural order of
			things is somewhat absurd and Eurocentric.

			comment score: 2 | u/Scorched_flame
			>Tens of thousands of years of evolution made it that way.  I am at
			a loss for words from this sentence alone, man.

		comment score: -8 | u/TriceratopsWrex
		Except that it's not exactly true. So few women are at risk of
		danger in our society that to be constantly on guard is not really
		rational.

			comment score: 9 | u/MizDiana
			?? You've been posting in /r/india . India is one of the most
			dangerous countries in the world for women.

				comment score: -2 | u/TriceratopsWrex
				I was commenting on a post. My two comments there were about
				asking for a reduction in rent due to not having full access to
				the facilities one is granted access to by the rental agreement,
				and asking about a case where a man who was falsely accused of
				rape was pulled out of a jail and lynched by a mob.  I know India
				is more dangerous. I live in America, and based on the fact that
				in a given year, 300 out of every 100,000 women will be raped at
				most with the highest estimate available and less than 4 out of
				every 100,000 women will be murdered here, America is safe for
				women for the most part. Women are less likely to be the victims
				of any given violent crime here.

					comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
					We have a different opinion of acceptable risk. For me, nearly
					one out of 5 college students experiencing a rape just during
					college is too high. And you're focusing only on rape... why?
					Public defensiveness is also sometimes useful for warding off
					harassment, theft, or other issues. Hell, plenty of men view
					strange men as threats unless proven otherwise. That isn't
					exactly a behavior limited to women.

						comment score: 0 | u/TriceratopsWrex
						Well, I don't believe the 1/5 figure. I believe that it is more
						likely to be 1/20 to 1/1000. Either number is too high, I grant
						you. That aside, I didn't just focus on rape. I pointed out that
						women are murdered at such low rates that less than 4 out of
						100,000 will be murdered. For every single violent crime, from
						armed robbery to assault, female victims are vastly outnumbered
						by male victims. Who is doing the victimizing in this case does
						not matter. The point is that women are far safer in American
						society.   With regards to rape, though, the odds of a stranger
						raping a woman are even lower, because the rapist is most likely
						to be at the very least an acquaintance. I'm not saying that
						women shouldn't be aware of their surroundings, just that a lot
						of the feeling of unease in public could be deemed paranoia
						instead of rational fear.

							comment score: 4 | u/MizDiana
							Okay. Do you think men should be wary of other men?

								comment score: 0 | u/TriceratopsWrex
								I think people in general should practice situational
								awareness. Depending on the situation, exercising caution is
								the better course of action. In general, men shouldn't be wary
								of other men all the time. While men are far more likely to be
								victims, and perpetrators of violent crimes, outside of major
								cities violent crime is not all that common from a statistical
								viewpoint, and is continuing to decline. I work third shift,
								and I leave my house at 11:30 at night. I've lived in the same
								house for 3 1/2 years, and never had a problem with anybody in
								that time, despite the fact that I live in the part of town
								that is supposed to be the most violent and dangerous part. I
								still make sure to lock my doors behind me, and I'm careful
								going to my car and I keep an eye out until I get on the main
								road because it is night, my vision is limited by darkness,
								and there is a stop sign that is perfect for an ambush. I
								don't worry that a man might come up and commit a violent
								crime against me. I think that someone may do so one night,
								and that I should be cautious. When I am not working, I
								occasionally go on walks because my sleep schedule is fucked
								after working third shift. When doing so, I make it a point to
								carry a collapsible baton in addition to the knife that I've
								carried every day since I was 12. I don't carry them because I
								worry about being attacked, I do so just in case the
								statistically unlikely event that someone does attack me
								happens, and because the knife is dead useful, no pun
								intended. I used it to save the life of a friend when he got
								fishing line wrapped around his neck. If I see another man out
								for a walk, happens quite often where I live, i don't get
								afraid. There's a man who has 8 inches and hundred pounds on
								me I walk by quite frequently. I've never, not once felt
								afraid of him, because I read his body language and determine
								he is not a threat. Fear of a person shouldn't be based on
								which particular set of genitals a person has, and I'm
								speaking as someone who has been raped twice and sexually and
								physically assaulted more than a dozen times in his life.

									comment score: 7 | u/MizDiana
									Great. And when women do what you describe, men around them
									employ selection bias and assume they're like that all the
									time (like Anonymous does in the tweets linked in the OP).
									Now we're back to where we started.

						comment score: -2 | u/TriceratopsWrex
						[https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/more-evidence-
						that-1-in-5-college-women-have-not-been-sexually-
						assaulted](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/more-evidence-
						that-1-in-5-college-women-have-not-been-sexually-assaulted)
						Here is just one link backing up my belief that the 1/5 figure
						is not true.

			comment score: 3 | u/None
			[Citations needed] Though I believe that you are wrong on the
			account of the most typically accepted definition of violence, I am
			also referring to systemic violence - the ideologies and acts that
			perpetrate a worldview which leads to acts of physical violence.

				comment score: 1 | u/TriceratopsWrex
				https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.n
				ap.edu/read/4421/chapter/4&ved=2ahUKEwj8sKiO8-7jAhXMm-AKHZHEAEIQFj
				AHegQIBxAB&usg=AOvVaw0d0TUTnVay21n1GbQi2oam&cshid=1565117541099 Go
				to pages 303-304. Men are more likely to be victims of violent
				crime at every age. The only age range where the difference is
				negligible is the over 65 range, which is probably due to the fact
				that most people aren't willing to harm the elderly.

					comment score: 4 | u/None
					Annnnd this shows me what? No one is arguing that violence
					doesn’t happen against men or that there is less violence against
					men. My point is that violence is happening against women because
					they’re women, in most cases the violence committed against men
					is not based on the gender of the victim. This also doesn’t
					address my argument about systemic violence at all.

				comment score: 0 | u/TriceratopsWrex
				https://nortonbooks.typepad.com/everydaysociology/2009/05/who-is-
				most-likely-to-be-a-crime-victim.html

	comment score: 20 | u/TheExitKid
	No. It's called being a woman, and we have to be aware of our
	surroundings and any situation that could turn ugly at any moment, in
	order to survive. If you don't realise that, then it must be nice to
	be you.

	comment score: 5 | u/Lindaero
	No because she's right. You need to stay on your guard. If I were you
	I'd be more worried about the fact that women need to do this rather
	than the fact they are scared

	comment score: 4 | u/Muttguy87
	No. She isnt causing harm to men or swaying peoples decisions about
	men.

	comment score: 2 | u/Eklen
	My roommate used to ask me to meet her at the subway to walk her back
	to the house with me. When we first started living with each other I
	didn't really understand why, until I did it, and I immediately got
	it, because even walking home with another person strange men would
	still accost her and try to hug and talk to her. This happens
	literally with all of my female friends in all parts of my city,
	inside or outside. Not to mention my friend who was literally just
	grabbed by some random man and started to be dragged away on her walk
	home one night.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskSocialScience | u/primesah89 | 6 comments | 2019-01-25 | https://redd.it/ajs531
POST TITLE: Did the modern use of the term “Racism” originate from the Nazi persecution of Jews
I was watching a YouTube video arguing the redefining of “racism” as “prejudice plus power” is problematic for its applications within progressive and activist circles (ex: “black people and minorities can’t be racist”).
It argues that the modern understanding of the term initially came not from the institution of slavery and systemic racism in the U.S. (ex: Slavery, Jim Crow, etc), but Nazi Germany’s persecution of its Jewish minority.
He also argued than within Weimar Germany, Jews were (compared to other Germans) doing better economically and perceived to have “power”.
Here is my question:
**- Is it true the modern use of the term “racism” originated from the Nazi persecution of Jews?**

	comment score: 6 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	The question about the origin of the term *racism* is answered - I
	concur, as a concept it was created in the first half of the 20th
	century. Regarding the notion of defining racism as power plus
	prejudice, as far as I am aware of it originated in 1970. This idea
	appeared in Patricia Bido's book titled *Developing New Perspectives
	on Race: An Innovative Multi-Media Social Studies Curriculum in
	Racism Awareness for the Secondary Level* which was then popularized
	in the book White Awareness by Judy Katz, in which you can
	[explicitly find the notion that](https://books.google.ch/books?id=25
	AaGpyRnE8C&pg=PA201&lpg=PA201&dq=Developing+New+Perspectives+on+Race:
	+An+Innovative+Multi-media+Social+Studies+Curriculum+in+Racism+Awaren
	ess+for+the+Secondary+Level&source=bl&ots=MqfcSbdGwf&sig=ACfU3U11AuWP
	NZB6_xOUno6P6N82m1UxWg&hl=de&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwj4_NnzrovgAhUOZVAKHbIKBB
	gQ6AEwBHoECAQQAQ#v=onepage&q=power%20prejuidice&f=false) "Third World
	people cannot be racist against Whites in the United States". Just as
	a sidenote, I would dissuade from thinking that this definition is
	the consensus in the social sciences or even that it is particularly
	widespread. *Perhaps* among the more critical/radical circles.

	comment score: 3 | u/TychoCelchuuu
	Via [here](https://www.etymonline.com/word/racist?ref=etymonline_cros
	sreference), yes, the word "racism" originated as a description of
	what the Nazis were up to. Note that words change their meanings over
	time, so we are not obliged to use words to mean what they originally
	meant, so insofar as your question is not about the origin of the
	term but what we should presently use it to mean, it's no help to
	figure out where it came from.

		comment score: 3 | u/primesah89 (OP)
		Thank you. This has been very helpful. I understand that words
		change over time, but the reason I watched that video was because it
		raised questions regarding the inclusion of the power prerequisite,
		providing cover for individuals from historically disenfranchised
		groups of their own bigotry. I was just curious if the historical
		context could provide any relevant insight.

			comment score: 2 | u/TychoCelchuuu
			Rather than bothering with history, if you are interested in the
			power prerequisite, you would be better served investigating the
			power prerequisite. Some places to start: https://reddit.com/r/AskS
			ocialScience/comments/10pky7/sociological_definition_of_racismsexis
			m/?st=jqxj0dd7&sh=19c6483a https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/co
			mments/40iwvr/i_see_many_argue_its_impossible_to_be_racist/?st=jqxj
			0eqb&sh=de92d274 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/2to
			4re/is_prejudice_power_racism_given_preference_or/?st=jqxj0gbw&sh=9
			f59c8af https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/3j8wl6/is_th
			ere_any_literature_on_the_existence_or_lack/?st=jqxj0hzi&sh=ddf55d3
			4 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/1kq6e6/racism_prej
			udice_power_is_this_a_legitimate/?st=jqxj0iyf&sh=9416c34e https://r
			eddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/3smkja/why_cant_black_people_
			be_racist/?st=jqxj0kj9&sh=141f5246 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialSc
			ience/comments/1cl6rs/im_not_sure_if_this_belongs_here_but_can_othe
			r/?st=jqxj0mdo&sh=ff206317 https://reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/co
			mments/1l2gwp/what_are_the_sociological_definitions_of_racism/?st=j
			qxj0rhf&sh=a8a3679b https://www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comme
			nts/ag5jq5/when_where_and_how_did_the_only_white_people_can/?st=jrc
			u9fho&sh=24c78f8c

				comment score: 1 | u/primesah89 (OP)
				Thanks, I’ll look into these.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskFeminists | u/shyghost_ | 3 comments | 2019-08-28 | https://redd.it/cwtvnr
POST TITLE: Can you talk to your boss about tone policing?
I don’t really feel like getting into the backstory but more looking for general advice. Has anyone had a conversation with their male boss as a woman about tone policing, and how it can potentially bias their feedback? I’m working my first office job (23F) and have never been in an environment like this before, so open to suggestions from more experienced people. Thanks!

	comment score: 6 | u/avocado-nightmare
	how much do you need/like your job? Because you *can* talk to your
	boss about it but it's very unlikely to yield the results you want
	unless you work for a very particular kind of person and/or company.

		comment score: 1 | u/lilbunnykewt
		what do you think will "yield results"

	comment score: 1 | u/lilbunnykewt
	It depends on the culture. If you work at a smaller company and or
	growth-minded company, then they should be aware of the general trend
	about empowering women and do something about it. I would say do it,
	you're young and definitely don't stay somewhere that does not care
	for your growth. There will be plenty other opportunities.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskSocialScience | u/M1NNE5OTA | 1 comments | 2020-06-02 | https://redd.it/gvb70d
POST TITLE: Where is money most needed to support social justice?
It's my birthday this weekend and I'd like to ask for donations to support minority communities and help fight against racism in this country. However, I'm not the most well-versed in the root socioeconomic causes of what appears to be heavy racial bias by the justice system.
Charities that seem to be floating around are those that are providing bail and representation for protestors, but being a downtown Chicago resident and witnessing careless looting and, frankly, people taking advantage of the situation, I don't want that money to be misdirected toward them.
Thus, my question for social scientists is: **In what areas of society might donations today have the highest chance to advance the fight against racism in the long term, and are there any studies to support it?** In other words, is donating to police reform getting at the heart of the issue, or is it just a band-aid for deeper root issues (e.g. education, joblessness, etc.)?
I can do the research into charities by category and ensure I'm picking one with good accountability/transparency to make sure this doesn't break rule 7.
Thanks in advance!

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskSocialScience | u/Sky-is-here | 4 comments | 2020-05-08 | https://redd.it/gfrufi
POST TITLE: Why does it seem to be a bias towards the left wing in more educated population?
Why does it seem in many countries that more educated and higher population places tend to lean towards the left while more sparcely populated places vote right? Is the concept of education favouring the left wing right?
Also why do groups vote together. For example in my country the military and police typically vote all together the right wing, the middle class votes overhelmingly left wing... etc. Why is that?

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 3 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	Careful, the term [bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bias) is not
	synonymous with "skew", "lean", "gravitate towards", etc. This is a
	reaction to the title, as the body uses the more appropriate "lean".
	Regarding your question, it is important first of all to be aware
	that the demographics can vary between countries, and also between
	academic disciplines. Therefore, even though the [Pew Research
	Center](https://www.people-press.org/2016/04/26/a-wider-ideological-
	gap-between-more-and-less-educated-adults/) found in 2016 that
	"highly educated adults" tend to be so-called liberals,
	[Gross](http://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674059092)
	points out the following: >**Where in academe can moderates,
	libertarians, and strong conservatives be found**? Again, the PAP
	data are not very helpful in identifying libertarians, but something
	can be said about moderates and the two right-leaning groupings that
	the latent class analysis turned up. Table 1.1 shows how all six of
	the clusters are distributed across types of institutions and broad
	disciplinary areas. **Economic and strong conservatives are
	underrepresented at elite, PhD-granting institutions and liberal arts
	colleges**; strong conservatives are **underrepresented as well at
	nonelite, PhD granting schools** and **overrepresented in community
	colleges**. In terms of disciplinary differences, **economic and
	strong conservatives are overrepresented in business, and the former
	in engineering as well.** A more fine-grained analysis shows that
	**conservatives tend to cluster in fields like accounting, management
	information, marketing, and electrical engineering**, while
	**economics contains a higher proportion of strong conservatives than
	do social science fields such as sociology and psychology** [...]
	Broadly speaking, concerning the fact that academia (in the USA but
	also elsewhere) tends to have people who lean "left" rather than
	"right", the primary cause is mostly understood to be self-selection,
	even among those who also suggest other factors. To quote Gross
	again: >[…] **over the years academia has acquired such a strong
	reputation as a liberal occupation that many more liberal than
	conservative students form the aspiration to pursue an academic
	career, seeing it as a better fit with who they are politically.**
	>**Professors in the social sciences and humanities tend to be the
	most left-leaning**, I argued, not because there is something
	intrinsic about these fields that makes them so but **because over
	the years the distance between them and conservatively inclined
	sectors such as the military and the business world has enabled
	radically or liberally oriented scientific and intellectual movements
	to gain ground, rendering the moving content of these fields
	especially appealing to scholars on the left.** **Conservatives are
	less likely to be found at elite schools not because of bias or
	discrimination against them but because those conservatives who go
	against type to become academics often have lower levels of
	intellectual capital than their liberal peers**. It is worthwhile to
	consider, for example, the fact that in the USA so-called liberals
	and conservatives tend to have different views of academia and higher
	education. See for example [this thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/Ask
	SocialScience/comments/g21nhd/in_the_us_why_do_rightwingers_seem_to_b
	e/). To quote the [Pew Research
	Center](https://www.pewsocialtrends.org/essay/the-growing-partisan-
	divide-in-views-of-higher-education/): >Two additional Pew Research
	Center surveys underscore the partisan gap in views about higher
	education. **In late 2018, 84% of Democrats and independents who lean
	to the Democratic Party said they have a great deal or a fair amount
	of confidence in college and university professors to act in the best
	interests of the public. Only about half (48%) of Republicans and
	Republican leaners said the same.** In fact, 19% of Republicans said
	they have no confidence at all in college professors to act in the
	public interest. And in early 2019, 87% of Democrats – but fewer than
	half (44%) of Republicans – said colleges and universities are open
	to a wide range of opinions and viewpoints. --- The popular idea that
	college *makes* people liberal is unsupported by research. Instead,
	researchers such as [Dey](https://www.jstor.org/stable/2960009)
	concluded in 1997 that academia is not generally "liberalizing",
	rather that students who enter "politically liberal institutions" or
	"politically conservative institutions" become more "liberal" or
	"conservative" due to, for example, social interactions with peers.
	This is in line with what [Fischer et al.](https://www.sciencedirect.
	com/science/article/pii/S0176268016300672) found in 2016, i.e.: >We
	also find that **university students select themselves into fields of
	study that correspond to the values they have acquired before making
	this first important career choice, which is perfectly in line with
	the extensive literature that investigates to what extent economists
	are special and why they are special.** The contribution of our study
	in this respect consists in having shown that the value judgments
	that influence the student’s choice of his or her field of study also
	influence his or her political attitudes. To a large extent,
	**students enrolled in different fields of study thus hold different
	values and behave differently because of self-selection which, in
	turn, is mainly driven by socialization before they reach
	adulthood.** I would also take into account what [Campbell and Horowi
	tz](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0038040715617224)'s
	found in 2015, >**Present scholarship and folk theory assume that
	college makes students more ‘‘liberal,’’ but education might be
	confounded with unobserved family influences.** We investigated the
	effect of college on political orientation, support for civil
	liberties,and egalitarian gender-role beliefs [...] We found that
	**earning a four-year college degree has a statistically significant
	impact on support for civil liberties and egalitarian gender-role
	beliefs, but the effect of college on political orientation may be
	spurious owing to family background.** In other words, **college does
	have a statistically significant effect on some sociopolitical
	beliefs, even if it does not necessarily make students more
	‘‘liberal’’ in political orientation** [...]  In other words, they
	found that there might be an effect of college, but on particular
	attitudes (such as support for civil liberties or egalitarian gender
	roles) rather than political orientation. Woessner's esssay titled
	"[Rethinking the Plight of Conservatives in Higher Education:
	Findings that run against the grain of
	assumptions](https://www.aaup.org/article/rethinking-plight-
	conservatives-higher-education)" (including the three comments) may
	be an interesting read, and I believe it is important to keep in mind
	that thinking in terms of "left" and "right" can hide heterogeneity
	of ideas and viewpoints. As [van der Werfhorst](https://onlinelibrary
	.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/1468-4446.12716?campaign=wolearlyview)
	found more recently: >However, with regard to the residual variance,
	as a measure of homogeneity within occupational groups, the pattern
	is less clear. **Professors do not stand out as having a low
	dispersion of orientations. If universities were exclusionary
	organizations where diversity of opinions is undesired and
	conservative scholars are excluded, one would expect this would have
	resulted in a high level of homogeneity of opinions.** The fact that
	that seems not to be very clearly the case is reassuring for the
	contemporary debates on ideological diversity in higher education.
	--- Regarding your last question, see [this thread](https://www.reddi
	t.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments/b7kcg7/is_there_any_evidence_that_m
	embers_of_law/).

		comment score: 3 | u/Sky-is-here (OP)
		Great answer thank you! (Random unrelated question you may know the
		answer to too, why are liberals in my country right wing and in the
		USA it means left wing?

			comment score: 3 | u/Revue_of_Zero
			You're welcome! It is because the [term "liberal" can mean
			different things in different
			countries](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-10658070), which is why I
			keep finding myself hedging the use of the word (as you might have
			noticed). Contrast Wikipedia's page on
			[liberalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberalism) with its
			page on [modern liberalism in the United States](https://en.wikiped
			ia.org/wiki/Modern_liberalism_in_the_United_States). Thus, in the
			US context, [the term "liberal" ended up being strongly associated
			with the Democratic Party](https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-
			at-play/liberal-meaning-origin-history) and by association with
			"leftism" (and it has also since become a sort of insult), [even
			though "leftism" and "liberalism" are not - in principle - the same
			thing](https://theconversation.com/the-difference-between-left-and-
			liberal-and-why-voters-need-to-know-120273) (and other countries
			distinguish them).

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskSocialScience | u/None | 1 comments | 2020-01-12 | https://redd.it/enpdpf
POST TITLE: Is it possible to truthfully and wholly study human society while still being in it?
[deleted]

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 1 comments | 2019-10-07 | https://redd.it/deu1qo
POST TITLE: Social media/online dating is allowing more bad men to enter relationships
[removed]

	comment score: 1 | u/Ayeprihl
	What is the question?

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 1 comments | 2019-03-26 | https://redd.it/b5s17u
POST TITLE: How to argue against "according to —— the definition of sexism, what I said/did can't be sexist" How to explain sexism (and racism)?
[deleted]

	comment score: 1 | u/SmashTheKyriarchy
	Why don’t you just say that those comments are prejudiced and
	discriminatory? You seem to think that people who
	[define](https://equity.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/Tatum-
	Talking-About-Race.pdf) sexism and racism as a system of advantage
	based on race or gender also think that prejudice or discrimination
	that falls outside of that definition is acceptable or unimportant.
	You should at least test that hypothesis, rather than continue to
	operate on an assumption. If you’re right that these people just
	don’t care about prejudice against men, then you should address that
	head on instead of pouring your energy into an academic debate about
	definitions.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 0 comments | 2020-03-12 | https://redd.it/fhogip
POST TITLE: Studies show in German speaking countries, men are 2-8 times less likely to get a callback for the same resume. Is this systemic gender bias?
[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 0 comments | 2019-12-20 | https://redd.it/edgfsn
POST TITLE: How to lose emotional bias towards women?
[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 0 comments | 2019-12-17 | https://redd.it/ec5r9e
POST TITLE: Can I have some examples of feminists fighting education bias against boys ?
[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskSocialScience | u/Footelvr | 0 comments | 2019-10-22 | https://redd.it/dlngxf
POST TITLE: [Academic Survey] Reduction of Prejudice towards Atheists, ( U.S. 18+)
[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 0 comments | 2019-08-09 | https://redd.it/cnzq5y
POST TITLE: Do you think feminism has been so successful inspite of some push back because of humans innate bias towards women?
[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/myfeedconsumption | 11 comments | 2019-10-25 | https://redd.it/dmvwae
POST TITLE: What is the feminist response to the James Damore's Google Memo take on the gap in tech?
Document here: [https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3914586/Googles-Ideological-Echo-Chamber.pdf](https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3914586/Googles-Ideological-Echo-Chamber.pdf)
At Google, we’re regularly told that implicit (unconscious) and explicit biases are holding women back in tech and leadership. Of course, men and women experience bias, tech, and the workplace differently and we should be cognizant of this, but it’s far from the whole story.
On average, men and women biologically differ in many ways. These differences aren’t just socially constructed because:
* They’re universal across human cultures 
* They often have clear biological causes and links to prenatal testosterone
* Biological males that were castrated at birth and raised as females often still identify and act like males
* The underlying traits are highly heritable
* They’re exactly what we would predict from an evolutionary psychology perspective
Note, I’m not saying that all men differ from all women in the following ways or that these differences are “just.” I’m simply stating that the distribution of preferences and abilities of men and women differ in part due to biological causes and that these differences may explain why we don’t see equal representation of women in tech and leadership. Many of these differences are small and there’s significant overlap between men and women, so you can’t say anything about an individual given these population level distributions.
Personality differences
Women, on average, have more:
* Openness directed towards feelings and aesthetics rather than ideas. Women generally also have a stronger interest in people rather than things, relative to men (also interpreted as empathizing vs. systemizing).
   * These two differences in part explain why women relatively prefer jobs in social or artistic areas. More men may like coding because it requires systemizing and even within SWEs, comparatively more women work on front end, which deals with both people and aesthetics.
* Extraversion expressed as gregariousness rather than assertiveness. Also, higher agreeableness
   * This leads to women generally having a harder time negotiating salary, asking for raises, speaking up, and leading. Note that these are just average differences and there’s overlap between men and women, but this is seen solely as a women’s issue. This leads to exclusory programs like Stretch and swaths of men without support.
* Neuroticism (higher anxiety, lower stress tolerance)
   * This may contribute to the higher levels of anxiety women report on Googlegeist and to the lower number of women in high stress jobs.
Note that contrary to what a social constructionist would argue, research suggests that "greater nation-level gender equality leads to psychological dissimilarity in men’s and women’s personality traits." Because as “society becomes more prosperous and more egalitarian, innate dispositional differences between men and women have more space to develop and the gap that exists between men and women in their personality traits becomes wider.” We need to stop assuming that gender gaps imply sexism.
Men’s higher drive for status
We always ask why we don't see women in top leadership positions, but we never ask why we see so many men in these jobs. These positions often require long, stressful hours that may not be worth it if you want a balanced and fulfilling life.
Status is the primary metric that men are judged on4, pushing many men into these higher paying, less satisfying jobs for the status that they entail. Note, the same forces that lead men into high pay/high stress jobs in tech and leadership cause men to take undesirable and dangerous jobs like coal mining, garbage collection, and firefighting, and suffer 93% of work-related deaths.
Non-discriminatory ways to reduce the gender gap
Below I'll go over some of the differences in distribution of traits between men and women that I outlined in the previous section and suggest ways to address them to increase women's representation in tech without resorting to discrimination. Google is already making strides in many of these areas, but I think it's still instructive to list them:
* Women on average show a higher interest in people and men in things
   * We can make software engineering more people-oriented with pair programming and more collaboration. Unfortunately, there may be limits to how people-oriented certain roles at Google can be and we shouldn't deceive ourselves or students into thinking otherwise (some of our programs to get female students into coding might be doing this).
* Women on average are more cooperative
   * Allow those exhibiting cooperative behavior to thrive. Recent updates to Perf may be doing this to an extent, but maybe there's more we can do
   * This doesn't mean that we should remove all competitiveness from Google. Competitiveness and self reliance can be valuable traits and we shouldn't necessarily disadvantage those that have them, like what's been done in education.
* Women on average are more prone to anxiety
   * Make tech and leadership less stressful. Google already partly does this with its many stress reduction courses and benefits.
* Women on average look for more work-life balance while men have a higher drive for status on average
   * Unfortunately, as long as tech and leadership remain high status, lucrative careers, men may disproportionately want to be in them. Allowing and truly endorsing (as part of our culture) part time work though can keep more women in tech
* The male gender role is currently inflexible
   * Feminism has made great progress in freeing women from the female gender role, but men are still very much tied to the male gender role. If we, as a society, allow men to be more "feminine," then the gender gap will shrink, although probably because men will leave tech and leadership for traditionally "feminine" roles
Philosophically, I don't think we should do arbitrary social engineering of tech just to make it appealing to equal portions of both men and women. For each of these changes, we need principled reasons for why it helps Google; that is, we should be optimizing for Google—with Google's diversity being a component of that. For example, currently those willing to work extra hours or take extra stress will inevitably get ahead and if we try to change that too much, it may have disastrous consequences. Also, when considering the costs and benefits, we should keep in mind that Google's funding is finite so its allocation is more zero-sum than is generally acknowledged.

	comment score: 25 | u/MizDiana
	The response? Very sexist. Amusingly blind to how sexist it is. And,
	perhaps most of all, shockingly ignorant regarding biology. Now, to
	be fair, I took an honors biology course in high school. Still, my
	high school biology spotted his foolishness. **Perhaps most
	importantly. Even if Damon is right, it is a reason for Google to
	discriminate against men, not women. Every single thing he mentions
	is a reason why women are BETTER employees for Google than men.
	Teamwork, perhaps largest among all. If you seriously believe in a
	biological difference in psychology, that is a reason for Google to
	NOT hire men. Do you really want to go down that path? Everything you
	list - showing more interest in people building than things, being
	cooperative/a good teammate, being more aware of potential dangers to
	self/team/company, being more balanced in life & less likely to
	pursue extreme, unhealthy behavior, the supposed superiority of women
	in overcoming bad social messaging. Everything you list is a reason
	for people like Damon - or you - to never be hired by Google when
	they could hire a woman instead. And you argue this is reality?** >
	At Google, we’re regularly told that implicit (unconscious) and
	explicit biases are holding women back in tech and leadership. A
	statement based on rigorous research, by the way. > They’re universal
	across human cultures True for none of the differences Damon claimed
	to have observed. > They often have clear biological causes and links
	to prenatal testosterone True for none of the differences Damon has
	claimed to have observed. > Biological males that were castrated at
	birth and raised as females often still identify and act like males
	Irrelevant to the traits Damon claimed to have observed. And to your
	above statements, obviously (David Reimer was still subject to social
	messaging). > The underlying traits are highly heritable True for
	none of the differences Damon claimed to have observed. AND
	irrelevant to gender differences. (The overwhelming majority of our
	genetics is not on the Y chromosome & therefore not specific to
	either gender.) > They’re exactly what we would predict from an
	evolutionary psychology perspective That is incorrect. It comes from
	an ignorance of evolutionary theory & pre-history mankind. > Note,
	I’m not saying that all men differ from all women in the following
	ways or that these differences are “just.”  Great. So we can stop
	right here, acknowledge Damon was wrong and an idiot for not taking
	into account individual differences being self-selected by chosen
	field, toss his junk into the garbage on the basis of the above
	statement alone, right? No, we can't? Because you're just saying that
	as a "don't truthfully tell me that I like discrimination" disclaimer
	rather than actually admitting Damon was wrong and an idiot? Because
	you actually like the idea of discrimination like Damon proposed?
	Sigh. Let's continue. > I’m simply stating that the distribution of
	preferences and abilities of men and women differ in part due to
	biological causes and that these differences You have absolutely zero
	scientific basis for this. It was pulled out of your ass. Or you
	believed the shit pulled out of someone's ass. I know this because of
	the basics of philosophy of science. It is not possible for us to
	construct scientific experiments to prove what you said because it is
	not possible for us to construct scientific experiments that are free
	of social pressures/impacts on psychology. Including gender roles.
	The variable of social training cannot be removed, ergo there is no
	possible scientific proof to your claims. It is important to remember
	again that these supposed psychological differences are NOT found
	across all cultures. > Openness directed towards feelings and
	aesthetics rather than ideas. Women generally also have a stronger
	interest in people rather than things, relative to men (also
	interpreted as empathizing vs. systemizing). Even if, for the sake of
	argument, we believe this is true, there is no reason to believe that
	isn't the result of training. Women receive vastly more training in
	the above as a child than men do, on average. So there is zero reason
	to believe in consistent underlying gender psychology. Just in the
	effectiveness of training. > These two differences in part explain
	why women relatively prefer jobs in social or artistic areas. More
	men may like coding because it requires systemizing and even within
	SWEs, comparatively more women work on front end, which deals with
	both people and aesthetics. More guesses pulled out of your or
	someone's ass and treated as if they are real. And, lest we forget,
	who cares? Individuals at Google, even if they are unusual
	individuals, do not deserve discrimination because other people of
	their gender are different from them. >  research suggests that
	"greater nation-level gender equality leads to psychological
	dissimilarity in men’s and women’s personality traits." Correlation
	does not equal causation. Please look it up. Also, such research has
	nothing to do with capability at performing in a tech company. > We
	always ask why we don't see women in top leadership positions, but we
	never ask why we see so many men in these jobs. These positions often
	require long, stressful hours that may not be worth it if you want a
	balanced and fulfilling life. This betrays a shocking ignorance of
	what higher-status jobs are actually like. Did you think company
	leaders are treated like mid-level managers? LOL, no. Being tried &
	stressed leads to bad strategic decisions. It would be foolishness to
	the point of losing vast amounts of profit for a company to work its
	higher-status people like you suggest they do. Once again, I have to
	point out that, if you are right, it shows that men are vastly
	inferior for high-level leadership jobs. Where knowing people's
	skills and being able to delegate tasks to free up executive time is
	incredibly important & being too status-hungry to relinquish
	controlling authority is pretty dumb & inefficient. > Status is the
	primary metric that men are judged on LOL, nice job othering women
	without even realizing it. Status is also the primary metric we use
	for women. It is the sources of social status that differ, not status
	itself. > Note, the same forces that lead men into high pay/high
	stress jobs in tech and leadership cause men to take undesirable and
	dangerous jobs like coal mining, garbage collection, and
	firefighting, and suffer 93% of work-related deaths This is just
	ignorant. Those forces are called sexism preventing women from being
	hired. Women not wanting those jobs is not at all why women are not
	in those jobs. And you have zero research showing so (I know, because
	there is no actual research showing so). Again, pulling shit out of
	your ass & believing it because you want to believe it. Don't worry
	though. I recognize you are a unique individual and are not using
	your example to assume all men are this ignorant of science & use of
	evidence. > Non-discriminatory ways to reduce the gender gap No need.
	By your own description, women are a vastly superior employee. Just
	remove the sexism preventing women's success and - according to you -
	there will be a different gender gap, with men locked out of
	corporate leadership & tech. *** Last, there are better takedowns of
	Damon than mine. It is amusing (and wholly predictable) that you are
	not aware of them.

		comment score: -7 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 10 | u/videoninja
			I mean I think someone who acts unprofessionally and creates a
			hostile work environment should be fired so in this case yes, I do
			think he should have been fired for writing his opinion. Like you
			would understand if I wrote to my coworker "I think you should die,
			your work is so sloppy and you make everyone's life here miserable"
			if my boss might have some feedback for me even though I was just
			"writing an opinion." Your words have consequences and not
			understanding how they might affect others is actually a failing on
			your part to be considerate. Having an opinion is not actually a
			shield for improper conduct.

			comment score: 6 | u/KaliTheCat
			According to our new policy of banning brand-new accounts that
			appear just to add nothing to the discussion, goodbye.

				comment score: 4 | u/oracular_duck
				I’ve stopped even telling them (him). Turns out I don’t have time
				for repeating that.

			comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
			No, that's the capitalist response. Google fired him because he was
			losing the company money. It's like, duh. What did he think was
			going to happen? Corporations like money. Threaten their profit and
			you get fired.

				comment score: 1 | u/myfeedconsumption (OP)
				How does his memo threaten profit?

					comment score: 3 | u/MizDiana
					Uh... seriously? Like, really? Google relies a lot on its
					positive public image. It has a lot of competitors in its core
					business it doesn't want people to switch to. It also wants to be
					a trusted company so no one challenges it on making a bunch of
					$$$ through shady shit like developing invasive government
					surveillance AI. If Google gets a bad public image, it loses
					money. A LOT of money. Billions. Being known as a sexist
					workplace that is hostile to women is a great way to hurt
					Google's image & thus cause it to lose money. Any employee at
					Damon's level ought to know this. If they don't, they're
					incompetent at their job and should be fired anyway.

	comment score: 9 | u/JulieCrone
	Oh, that old thing.  If it's just a biological thing, how come in the
	DC area, of all people employed in STEM fields (and thanks to all the
	various government agencies such as NASA and NIH around there, there
	are a lot of pretty technical jobs and serious scientific research
	positions), [44% of them are
	women](https://statusofwomendata.org/gender-differences-in-sectors-
	of-employment/)?  Compared to Google only having 25% women in
	technical roles, it does seem to suggest that what's happening at
	Google in regards to gender representation is not 'merely' due to
	biology.  > For example, currently those willing to work extra hours
	or take extra stress will inevitably get ahead and if we try to
	change that too much, it may have disastrous consequences.  What
	disastrous consequences?  Shareholders can't get rich off of other
	people burning themselves out?

	comment score: 2 | u/July-Thirty-First
	Eh, well there're a lot to dissect here but there are two chief
	problems that immediately jump out to me: 1. A lot of the
	"conclusions" stated here are way too strong and broad given the
	weakness of the evidence provided (not to mention the fact that
	they're not accompanied by sources). It's basically a lot of
	hypothesis being passed off as established fact. For instance, men
	and women's behavioral differences with *universality across human
	cultures*? Who looked into this? That right there's gotta be the
	anthropologist of the century! Anyways, until strong, empirical
	evidence is provided to back up each and every one of these claims,
	it's pretty hard (for me) to justify running off and making workplace
	policies based on these. 2. It cannot be denied that our society has
	been structured with inherent biases and that most corporations will
	have every incentive to conform. The question is what goals and
	priorities do we ultimately wish to pursue here: To generate more
	profit? Or perhaps to foster justice and equality? These goals can
	and oftentimes are incompatible with one another; if you want to
	maximize the immediate profit, you'll probably just let the social
	norm (however flawed and unjust) dictate your workplace policies. But
	that is pretty antithetical to the ideals behind feminism (along with
	many other social movements), so you'll likely find much disagreement
	here. EDIT: Ohhhh so this is the guy who was *fired*. That makes a
	lot of sense. I was questioning my sanity thinking this is somehow
	what *Google* has been working on in their HR department.

	comment score: 1 | u/Myllicent
	Erin Giglio (who's doing a PHD in Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, and
	Behavior at the University of Texas at Austin, and currently holds
	BSc degrees in Psychology and Genetics) wrote an extensive point by
	point refutation of James Damore's memo, citing over 100 peer
	reviewed works as evidence against his claims. Medium estimates it at
	a 90 minute read, so strap in. ["The truth has got its boots on: what
	the evidence says about Mr. Damore’s Google
	memo"](https://medium.com/@tweetingmouse/the-truth-has-got-its-boots-
	on-what-the-evidence-says-about-mr-damores-google-memo-bc93c8b2fdb9)

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/CRXC4567 | 24 comments | 2020-05-17 | https://redd.it/glnt98
POST TITLE: To achieve equal rights do you think laws should be changed so women must accept legal responsibilities men are already required to accept?
Things such as child support, the mother bias in divorce, and in America signing up for the draft in order for you to gain certain rights (like voting).
Edit 1: I wasn’t trying to say that these are pressing issues, I just didn’t know the answers or the feminist stance on these issues.

	comment score: 23 | u/JulieCrone
	With the exception of the draft, right now legally women are under
	the same obligations as men for all things you mentioned.  And the
	feminist position on the draft in the US has been known for over 40
	years.

		comment score: -2 | u/CRXC4567 (OP)
		Ok thanks!

			comment score: 12 | u/JulieCrone
			To give a more in depth answer — all for closing the child care gap
			where women provide most of the child care and men provide less.
			https://www.bls.gov/news.release/atus.t09.htm. This will in turn
			help the wage gap and the custody gap.  Motherhood and child care
			responsibilities are one of the major reasons women have to scale
			back careers or take lower paid jobs (and that ‘women’s work’ is
			generally low paid is often arbitrary).  Also, I wouldn’t say it
			unfair of courts to give the bulk of custody in the event of a
			divorce to the parent providing the bulk of the childcare.  So if
			men want to see more custody, they should also be willing to step
			up the time they spend on child care before there is a divorce,
			even when that means scaling back on their career a bit.

				comment score: 2 | u/CRXC4567 (OP)
				Thank so much, that is very helpful!

	comment score: 10 | u/avocado-nightmare
	1) Before you got here, did you legitimately believe that women
	weren't legally responsible for child support in the event that they
	didn't have a split custody arrangement or didn't win sole custody?
	2) There hasn't been a draft in the US since 1972 3) You can vote
	even if you don't register for [selective
	service.](https://www.sss.gov/register/benefits-and-repercussions/)
	I'm glad you're asking but in the future I cannot recommend looking
	up primary sources on these kinds of claims made by others (I assume
	these are things you've heard/seen others discuss) for yourself
	before repeating them.

		comment score: 2 | u/CRXC4567 (OP)
		I was just wondering because I had seen an article about it. But
		also https://www.usa.gov/selective-service says men (when they turn
		18) are legally required to sign up. Thank you for your answers
		though, they were quite helpful.

			comment score: 7 | u/avocado-nightmare
			Yes you are legally required to sign up and there are consequences
			if you don't, but not being able to vote isn't one of them. It is
			true that if you register to vote in person you may be
			prompted/asked to complete your registration for selective service
			at the same time, but ultimately it's up to you whether or not to
			do it. Now if your question is, "should women have to register for
			selective service?" personally I and most other feminists don't
			think mandatory military service should be a thing at all, but if
			it's going to be, yes, all eligible people, regardless of gender,
			should be required to do so. It wasn't feminists' choice to exclude
			women from military service and so I always think it's interesting
			that modernly feminists get "blamed" for the gender bias in
			military service.

				comment score: 5 | u/CRXC4567 (OP)
				I agree that draft shouldn’t exist and thank you for pointing out
				that it isn’t women’s fault they don’t have to sign up. That was
				super helpful

		comment score: 0 | u/chivo-
		So what if the last draft was in 1972? You have to remember 1972 is
		not the distant past... all Americans will have fathers, uncles,
		etc., who were supposed to become cannon fodder, or who were
		themselves cannon fodder. I never understood the reason it matters
		it happened in 1972? That’s a function of the fact there hasn’t been
		a war since then which required ‘mass mobilisation’; the next time a
		war breaks out, it will be the men who take care of it. The law, as
		it stands now, and as it was in the past and for time immemorial, is
		a prime example of discrimination, and you cannot simply gainsay
		that. Rather, be honest about the fact that you are complicit in
		this rather than trying to deflect, and take steps to do better and
		listen to men who are struggling.

			comment score: 1 | u/avocado-nightmare
			You know the US has been at war since 2002 right? They stopped the
			draft in 1972 because it was so unpopular, it was causing mass
			protests. The protests worked, the draft stopped. Although the
			selective service registration still exists, it's extremely
			unlikely they would reinstate the draft process-- because it's
			still deeply unpopular and I'm quite sure people will remember how
			to protest if it should start up again. Edited to add: Do you also
			know that women have only been recently legally allowed to enlist
			or serve on the frontlines? Like if you're going to be aggrieved
			about this I feel that you owe yourself an actual functional
			knowledge of the situation.

				comment score: 0 | u/chivo-
				>       You know the US has been at war since 2002 right? Yes,
				we’re all aware of that—not sure what relevance it has here. Is
				the fact the US maintains conscription no longer an issue? >
				They stopped the draft in 1972 because it was so unpopular, it was
				causing mass protests. The protests worked, the draft stopped.
				Although the selective service registration still exists, it's
				extremely unlikely they would reinstate the draft process--
				because it's still deeply unpopular and I'm quite sure people will
				remember how to protest if it should start up again. The draft was
				ended because the Vietnam War was unwinnable, and this allowed the
				US to capitulate in a subtle manner. It is naïve to think that
				protests or public opinion can influence the war machine in
				America. Both of the two parties are in favour of war and in
				favour of conscription for men. So, a law that discriminates
				against men is no longer an issue because it hasn’t been used for
				a little while? This has to be one of the strangest feminist
				canards. No-one would apply such a standard to other cases. The
				1970s isn’t even historical oppression, we all have relatives who
				lived in those times. There are men from the 1970s who lived under
				that threat still alive now—it is far from an academic or
				theoretical question. There are women still alive whose husbands
				are dead due to Vietnam. So, I can’t see it at all as a
				theoretical or academic concern: this is a concern about a law
				that enables and enshrines discrimination that still exists.  >
				Edited to add: Do you also know that women have only been recently
				legally allowed to enlist or serve on the frontlines? Like if
				you're going to be aggrieved about this I feel that you owe
				yourself an actual functional knowledge of the situation. What is
				that to do with this situation? It’s hard to view freedom from
				conscription (not being blown to bits in a rice paddy) as
				discrimination.

					comment score: 1 | u/avocado-nightmare
					>Now if your question is, "should women have to register for
					selective service?" personally ***I and most other feminists
					don't think mandatory military service should be a thing at all,
					but if it's going to be, yes, all eligible people, regardless of
					gender, should be required to do so.***   >   >It wasn't
					feminists' choice to exclude women from military service and so I
					always think it's interesting that modernly feminists get
					"blamed" for the gender bias in military service.

						comment score: 0 | u/chivo-
						When was the last time feminists led a protest against it? It’s
						hard to see them as serious, on this issue.

							comment score: 1 | u/avocado-nightmare
							I mean-- when was the last time you or men generally organized
							and led a protest against it? Why is on/up to feminists to
							solve this issue alone?

								comment score: 0 | u/chivo-
								I haven’t been able to organise against it as it’s not present
								in the place where I live. If I were American I would suppose
								I would organise against it. The moral responsibility lies
								with all of us, as it’s a moral issue that touches all of
								us—if one person’s abused it’s as if the entire world is.
								However, on a political level, feminists seem to be a certain
								responsibility due to their professed belief in gender
								equality. When a person is confronted with the fact feminists
								generally have been absent on this issue, he either thinks:
								feminists don’t care (which is an opinion I see implied a lot,
								although it seems like a bad tactic for a number of reasons),
								or, that feminists do care but are simply effete when it comes
								to this issue. (The reason it would be bad for feminists not
								to care is that feminism’s goals tend to go beyond ‘equality’
								and instead to abolish the patriarchy—anything that reinforces
								the image of men as ‘disposable’, ‘protector’, etc, forced
								women into the reverse of that role—that’s the dialectic of
								the patriarchy. Even from a view of self-interest, you have to
								be opposed to conscription, yet I think feminists seem not to
								care because it’s a male problem. Gendered violence is a
								common feature of war; and it is conscription that constitutes
								the majority of gendered violence directed against men in war.
								And it’s still legal, although dormant, in the USA, yet I’ve
								never once seen a feminist protest against it.) Whether it was
								feminists’ choice or not, is sort of a meaningless question.
								Feminists constitute a part of the social discourse, and their
								silence has to be taken as assent. A sin of omission is as
								severe as one of commission.

									comment score: 0 | u/avocado-nightmare
									> I haven’t been able to organise against it as it’s not
									present in the place where I live.  Uh........ there are a
									lot of problems then with your behaviour and attitude towards
									US feminists. It literally isn't an issue for you and you
									have absolutely no right to sit here and criticize or opine
									on what feminists in the US have or have not done about the
									issue of the US draft.

										comment score: 0 | u/chivo-
										I wasn’t aware I wasn’t allowed speak about issues that
										don’t affect me? What a strange idea... That sort is the
										talk of the elites, isn’t it? That’s how the establishment
										divide those that labour under it; don’t feel camaraderie,
										focus on the self alone! Bizarre. I suppose Western
										feminists shouldn’t criticise female circumcision then,
										since it takes place in the Middle East? Relativism is a
										disease. >       It literally isn't an issue for you and you
										have absolutely no right to sit here and criticize [etc,
										etc] This exposes the heart of neoliberal politics, which
										has infested feminism. The idea is political movements exist
										in order to allow an individual to advocate his self-
										interest, rather than some moral sense of the world.
										Conscription isn’t immoral because it could affect me, were
										I American; it’s immoral because it is. If I were born a
										woman it would still be. If I were born in a time before
										armies, in a state before we’d even imagined conscription,
										it would still be immoral. That’s how morals work!
										Otherwise, all that underpins politics is the self-interest
										of whoever’s involved; the moral tone is absent. Is it this
										which explains American feminists’ lack of insistence
										against the draft? That it doesn’t affect them? As I said;
										relativism is a disease. It infects political movements and
										rots them from the inside out.

		comment score: 1 | u/avocado-nightmare
		> I suppose Western feminists shouldn’t criticise female
		circumcision then, since it takes place in the Middle East Actually
		this does take place in the US.

			comment score: 0 | u/chivo-
			Sure, but to a much lesser extent, such that it’s considered to be
			a problem endemic to Africa/the ME. Please address the substance of
			what I said. Would female circumcision not be an issue for US if it
			didn’t take place at all in the US?

				comment score: 1 | u/avocado-nightmare
				1) Because it's clear you are just here to argue, I will be
				blocking you shortly. You aren't entitled to my time, or entitled
				to a response, and even less so because you aren't impacted by the
				issue directly and aren't educated on the issue. Please remember
				you are on the internet and therefore have both the capacity and
				intellect to research positions that are opposite your own on your
				own time. 2) I have responded several times directly to your
				points already. >Now if your question is, "should women have to
				register for selective service?" personally ***I and most other
				feminists don't think mandatory military service should be a thing
				at all, but if it's going to be, yes, all eligible people,
				regardless of gender, should be required to do so.***   >   >It
				wasn't feminists' choice to exclude women from military service
				and so I always think it's interesting that modernly feminists get
				"blamed" for the gender bias in military service. 3) [Women have
				served in war and supported military efforts throughout
				history](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Women_in_the_military)\--
				regardless of formal or conscripted status of their participation.
				[Women also make up the disproportionate victims of
				conflict](https://www.voanews.com/archive/un-says-women-children-
				are-biggest-victims-war), whether they are active participants or
				not. 4) Anytime someone starts framing the oppositions thought
				process or philosophical positions as 'diseased' is my cue that
				the person I'm speaking with is not engaging in the conversation
				in good faith and is not arguing from a position of logic or
				facts-- you're an ideologue and you will say anything to give
				yourself more air time. I'm not going to spend any more time or
				energy giving you a platform.

					comment score: 1 | u/chivo-
					>       Because it's clear you are just here to argue, I will be
					blocking you shortly. You aren't entitled to my time, or entitled
					to a response You should recall this is a place for discussion of
					feminism, it shouldn’t be such a surprise an advocate of feminism
					is asked to discuss it. It is completely typical of feminists to
					self-gratifyingly declare their non-response (which is itself a
					form of response!). >       and even less so because you aren't
					impacted by the issue directly That doesn’t follow on from the
					previous statement whatsoever. It’s also untrue in the sense that
					a moral issue is a moral issue regardless of who it faces or who
					causes it. You act as if a person can’t have an opinion about a
					topic unless it affects him personally, which is certainly
					strange given you would like men (presumably) to work with
					feminists rather than against them. That’s the reason I infer
					relativism from your remarks. >       and aren't educated on the
					issue. Please remember you are on the internet and therefore have
					both the capacity and intellect to research positions that are
					opposite your own on your own time. Typical condescension. I am
					educated on this topic, hence the view I espouse. You disagree
					and expect me to arrive at your view somehow through telepathy,
					and if I don’t, somehow I am guilty. There is an underlying
					religiosity to sections of feminism that I think comes out in the
					way you speak... it’s religious-minded in the sense that all your
					ideas are completely illuminated to you, and you imply any person
					who doesn’t agree simply needs to rediscover what should be
					obvious to them—there’s this sense of ideas as pre-ordained
					rather than discovered through discussion. Even saying “educate
					yourself” implies your view is the only educated view. I could
					educate myself further and become even more set in my views. Of
					course, you only consider an educated view to be your one. So, it
					is a form of circular reasoning. >       Women have served in war
					and supported military efforts throughout history-- regardless of
					formal or conscripted status of their participation. Certain
					women have performed roles, most of them minor. Most women had
					little to no role. You said before that women weren’t allowed to
					serve in the armies, so you contradict your own words. Please
					recall the topic here is conscription, in any case, not women
					generally in the military. I really struggle to see the relevance
					of this point, even if it were correct, to the discussion. >
					Women also make up the disproportionate victims of conflict,
					whether they are active participants or not. That’s as close as
					we will ever come to a meaningless statement. It sounds nice, but
					if we drill down we discover it has no semantic content
					whatsoever. For starters, what would proportionate victimhood
					look like? Is there a meaningful difference between active and
					passive participants given that men are generally conscripts
					without choice? >       Anytime someone starts framing the
					oppositions thought process or philosophical positions as
					'diseased' is my cue that the person I'm speaking with is not
					engaging in the conversation in good faith and is not arguing
					from a position of logic or facts-- you're an ideologue and you
					will say anything to give yourself more air time. I'm not going
					to spend any more time or energy giving you a platform.
					Relativism is a disease on political discourse, because it leads
					to the elimination of morals in favour of nonsense. You cannot be
					a relativist and be, at the same time, against FGM, against rape
					as a weapon of war, etc, as relativism doesn’t allow for such
					discourse as those things are unique generally to societies other
					than ours. Child sacrifice too: no criticising child sacrifice!
					You sound like a more tiresome version of one of those
					conservative Shapiro fans, with all this obsession towards the
					discourse, towards facts and logic, and faith, and politeness,
					and so on. It’s possible to simply talk to one another—why this
					constant need to self-consciously reaffirm your place in the
					discourse? We don’t need to begin all our paragraphs with a
					statement of polite and rational we are. It’s also redolent of
					Christopher Hitchens incoherently dropping “logical fallacies”.
					You pretend to be rational but of your words maybe 10% actually
					has semantic meaning. Nearly everything else is rhetorical.

	comment score: 7 | u/moonlight_sparkles
	Ideally, I'd rather see the draft abolished than subjecting more
	people to it. If you search this sub about it, you'll see it's been
	discussed many times and most people here generally agree with that.
	At least in my state, 50/50 custody is the default arrangement *in
	cases where custody is contested*. The problem is that many parents
	don't understand their rights and don't ask for custody. It's more a
	social issue than a legal one, which is unfortunately harder to
	solve.  It also gets more complicated when you look at parents who
	were never married and never write up a formal custody plan.

		comment score: 2 | u/CRXC4567 (OP)
		I agree, and thank you for such a good answer

	comment score: 0 | u/None
	[deleted]

		comment score: 2 | u/CRXC4567 (OP)
		Great, thanks!

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/Adornment-F | 83 comments | 2019-10-31 | https://redd.it/dpnci4
POST TITLE: Gatekeeping etc.
So as a Gen-X female, raising two boys, running my own business in a man's world,  I have this one question.
What triggers should be avoided when communicating with my fellow feminists?
In my business you have to put on your grownup panties and get in there with boots and all. But it seems like you can not do the straight talking online, lest you show bias, an attitude, hate girl culture, have words placed in your mouth etc. Do I really have to walk on eggs and toe the line according to some unspoken code, to be a feminist. Must I really be a good girl with only approved opinions?
I'm sorry making in making ends meet, I did not get the memo, I don't speak the lingo, English is not my home language and I'm not American, am I now excluded?
Those are rhetorical questions, my only real question is, what are those triggers?

	comment score: 22 | u/KaliTheCat
	I have literally no idea what you're talking about.

	comment score: 9 | u/JustWhatAmI
	>But it seems like you can not do the straight talking online, lest
	you show bias, an attitude, hate girl culture, have words placed in
	your mouth  Can you give specific examples of this?

		comment score: -9 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
		Well I talked about Ken's neutenous facial features, and that my
		boys wanted a man doll, not the effeminate cute Ken on offer. Well,
		I won't male that mistake again.

			comment score: 22 | u/avocado-nightmare
			I think the issue is that you are upholding patriarchal values and
			making a negative judgement about Ken's relative level of
			'masculinity'-- which isn't very feminist and is probably pretty
			toxic for your children TBH.  The other thing is: if you come here
			to hear real talk from feminists, please don't get butt hurt when
			people tell you something that isn't what you wanted to hear. If
			you just wanted an echo chamber to bemoan Ken's supposed
			"effeminization" (*yikes)* this won't be the place but I'm sure
			there are lots of places for parents who share your values if you
			want to talk about that.

				comment score: -7 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
				That's fine I realise it's controversial, but it is reality. I'm
				not hurt about people not agreeing , I'm disappointed by the
				reasoning. One or two posts with good perspectives, but the rest
				about what a bad person I am. How is having a more masculine older
				Ken upholding patriarchy? Pale males are then by their mere
				existence upholding patriarchy?

					comment score: 13 | u/MizDiana
					People giving you advice intended to help your children live a
					better, happier life is not a personal attack on you.

						comment score: -1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
						Well how is knowing I'm not worthy going to make them happier?
						Nobody has yet bothered to tell me why having a grown up man
						doll is a problem. No one has explained the acceptable threshold
						of masculine features in dolls to me.  I accept that I used
						inappropriate terminology to describe the Disneyfied cute
						features on the new Ken dolls.

							comment score: 7 | u/MizDiana
							> Nobody has yet bothered to tell me why having a grown up man
							doll is a problem. It's not. The problem is which doll, and
							which are available on the market - which was explained to you.
							> How is having a more masculine older Ken upholding
							patriarchy? It tells your young boys the kind of person they
							should try to be - and shames them if they are not that kind of
							person. > Well how is knowing I'm not worthy going to make them
							happier?  No one said you weren't worthy. And even if you
							weren't worthy, they wouldn't know that. They'd just be playing
							with a toy, having fun. As kids should do. One they aren't
							taught (by you) to dislike as not manly enough. (Which might
							then cause them to worry they're not manly enough in your eyes
							later on.) OR, if you didn't buy them the doll because it
							wasn't manly enough, than the difference is they'd have a toy
							to play with. As kids should.

								comment score: 2 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
								And if there was a grandfather doll? I don't see how
								preferences should be loaded with so much baggage. I still
								believe in their child-like innocence, if they run up to the
								shelves and they don't like the hipster dolls, just maybe they
								have a point. It's like their girl friends not liking the fact
								that all the Lego horses became super feminine teddies with
								human eyes, the girls want real horses. I fail to see the
								difference.

									comment score: 7 | u/mjbristolian
									I'm not sure if wires have been crossed because you're not
									being 100% clear. Would you have had an issue with your boy
									playing with the ken doll? If not, are you suggesting that
									such dolls should be available in a range of types ranging
									from feminine to masculine (all valid and of equal worth),
									because that is something i could agree with

										comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
										It would have made my life so much easier if he just took
										the first doll he saw. But he really disliked the faces. His
										first doll was a mermaid barbie he found at a charity shop.

		comment score: 5 | u/mjbristolian
		So he likes the dolls he likes and you are not try to influence his
		decision based on the gender or gender expression of such toys. That
		seems pretty progressive for me. Perhaps people thought you were
		attaching moral value to the fact ken was feminine  but from what
		you are saying, you weren't.

			comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
			Well Ken did become Disneyfied between 2000 and now. I was trying
			to figure out why they don't want the doll, and I think I got it
			now.

				comment score: 8 | u/mjbristolian
				What do you mean by disneyfied? Has Disney made the doll more
				feminine?

					comment score: 2 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
					Neotenous is apparently the word. That is what Disney also did.

						comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
						That's very different from what you started with, when you were
						talking about the doll not being masculine enough. Very
						different complaint. I hope you can see the reason for the
						confusion!!!

							comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
							Well, two people helped me with that, here, while the rest
							judged and labeled me. Oh the irony.

									comment score: 3 | u/MizDiana
									> And if there was a grandfather doll? Great. Play with it.
									Unless you only accept that it is a grandfather doll if it
									looks a certain way and denigrate the doll for not being the
									right kind of grandfather doll the way that you did the Ken
									doll. >  I don't see how preferences should be loaded with so
									much baggage. Feminists don't load them up with that baggage.
									The people who have the preferences - and push those on their
									kids - do. Don't shoot the messenger. **We didn't load the
									preferences with baggage. Our message is "please don't load
									the kids up with that baggage".** > It's like their girl
									friends not liking the fact that all the Lego horses became
									super feminine teddies with human eyes, the girls want real
									horses. See, exactly. It's bad to say "horses have to be
									super-feminine and that means eyelashes and unrealistic
									stuff". So you agree that preferences with baggage is bad -
									but only for horses and not for male dolls. Why? Why not
									treat Ken dolls and grandfather dolls the same way you treat
									Lego horses?

										comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
										The kids, girls and boys, want the real horses see?

					comment score: 9 | u/avocado-nightmare
					>Pale males What? I think you literally don't know enough about
					feminism to be having this conversation. If you don't understand
					how stereotypes about manliness are part of patriarchy and how
					damaging they are to boys and men... honestly there is nothing I
					can to do help you. Try watching "[The Mask You Live
					In](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hc45-ptHMxo)" and then you
					can answer your own question about why using words like
					effeminate isn't feminist.

						comment score: -6 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
						See, gatekeeping, pale males is now a wrong think word, very
						welcoming indeed. In our work culture we use that term a lot,
						diversity, pale males, affirmative action, window dressing, now
						I must go with videos to align my language use? A pale male Ken,
						can be a janitor, game ranger, nurse, the do have a black
						firefighter what is the issue?

							comment score: 9 | u/avocado-nightmare
							I've literally never heard that term, I said what because I
							don't know what it means or that it's even a real term. If it's
							being used to describe men who aren't manly enough.... that's
							problematic as f*ck and so are you. And yeah, you should watch
							the video because it's about how ideas about masculinity hurt
							men and boys psychologically and as a parent of boys and a
							feminist I figured you might... I dunno, care about that?

								comment score: -5 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
								It's a white male in businesses, and that means BAD.

									comment score: 11 | u/JulieCrone
									No one says white men in business are bad.  ONLY white men,
									or only any one type of person, is.

									comment score: 6 | u/ami_anai
									In your OP you refer to yourself as a Gen X female, but now
									you're a white male in business?

							comment score: 8 | u/NHFNNC
							That is quite the word salad you just tossed.

								comment score: -4 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
								Well the gatekeeping is working.

									comment score: 10 | u/NHFNNC
									You have yet to give examples of said gatekeeping.

			comment score: 10 | u/KaliTheCat
			Why would you come to a feminist forum seeking a feminist
			perspective and then be upset when you got it? Did you just post
			this question to complain?

				comment score: -4 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
				Because I always saw myself as a feminist, and I was simply
				curious about the feminist view on it. What I did not expect was
				the gatekeeping and projecting. No I'm not complaining, I'm asking
				a question. Am I now being interrogated all over again? Obviously
				I'm not a good enough feminist, cause somehow it feels like I
				failed again if you don't understand the question.

					comment score: 13 | u/KaliTheCat
					The question makes no sense. You're just babbling about triggers
					and walking on eggshells and being a man with boots on and
					whatever else. I have no idea what that is even supposed to be
					about. > I was simply curious about the feminist view on it And
					you got it. You just didn't like it. That's not "gatekeeping and
					projecting." People were being honest with you.

						comment score: 0 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
						Well I expected a little more thoughtful convincing perspectives
						from feminists. And I did get two or so very good responses with
						substance. I don't mind honesty, but then surely there is value
						in helping me understand your reasoning and not. To me it feels
						like you don't see any validity whatsoever in my viewpoints, and
						that is the stuff that feel alienating.

							comment score: 14 | u/avocado-nightmare
							Your viewpoints aren't feminist. No one is saying you aren't
							entitled to have them, but if your question is, "is it okay to
							identify as feminist and have this outlook on Ken's
							masculinity" then the answer is no. Sorry if that hurts your
							feelings or makes you feel alienated but there's nothing else
							to say about it.

								comment score: -1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
								And that, sister is gatekeeping. Feminists are not afforded
								cognitive dissonance, difficulties with gender issues and all
								subcultures must be excepted equally. That's a tall order.

									comment score: 14 | u/avocado-nightmare
									I don't think you know what gatekeeping is or means, or what
									feminism is or means. Thanks for wasting my morning.

									comment score: 12 | u/KaliTheCat
									It's not gatekeeping. Words mean things. Your views on that
									particular topic do not align with feminist values.

										comment score: -1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
										How many strikes and you are out? That is exactly what I've
										been asking. I don't speak the lingo and because my views on
										one stupid mangled plastic toy, I'm not good enough to
										identify as a feminist. OK I get the message.

		comment score: 3 | u/KaliTheCat
		I mean, it's clearly very important to you.

			comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
			Gender issues is huge for me, huge. But if this is gonna trip me
			up, I'll just vent elsewhere.

				comment score: 6 | u/KaliTheCat
				Well this really isn't a sub for venting, it's for asking
				questions about feminism.

					comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
					What I meant is,  I'll just stay away from these places.

				comment score: 4 | u/oracular_duck
				> Gender issues is huge for me, huge. This is clear. I think you
				might have more success speaking to a counselor or therapist — or,
				as I just suggested on another comment, over at r/MensLib.

					comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
					What is it like there?

									comment score: 4 | u/Jasontheperson
									It's really not that difficult to be at least tolerant.

										comment score: 0 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
										God I really try. Wait one day when you are forty and you
										see the crap your kids must put up with, just remember the
										tolerance.

		comment score: 3 | u/Jasontheperson
		Crap such as?

					comment score: 12 | u/avocado-nightmare
					You are being very reactive, and not reflective-- you can
					identify as a feminist and understand that you could still have
					holdover, problematic ideas about gender identity. To me it looks
					like you have some problematic ideas about men and masculinity,
					and while you've been willing to make an allowance (letting your
					son play with a doll) you aren't willing to let that doll not be
					"masculine enough"... because...? People are right to question
					you on that, and push on that-- that's what growth and learning
					with a feminist identity looks like. It isn't a one and done
					moment, it requires interrogation of these kinds of moments of
					personal discomfort and resistance to dismantling\* gender
					stereotypes-- because that's what you're fundamentally holding
					onto and making a judgement about. That the Ken's now aren't
					"manly enough" and 1) that's a bad thing and 2) it will be
					somehow bad for your sons. That's not a feminist perspective, and
					you may need to take some time to reflect on why that's such a
					deep and personal issue for you, especially if you feel like it's
					being pointed out as inconsistent with your feminist self-
					identity.

						comment score: 0 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
						That is putting words in my mouth, Mattel has crossed of into
						the uncanny valley. These dolls are not selling. My children
						don't like their faces, and subsequently with the help of two
						users here I managed to pin down the exact issue that makes the
						Ken doll uncanny.

							comment score: 7 | u/ami_anai
							>  Mattel has crossed of into the uncanny valley  That's an
							interesting take on a company whose main product (Barbies) are
							so unrealistically stylized that their proportions in real life
							[would not be sufficient to hold a woman's internal
							organs](https://www.nydailynews.com/life-style/health/barbie-
							real-womaan-anatomically-impossible-article-1.1316533). I
							agree, Mattel's dolls are not realistic. But that isn't a new
							thing and it's not because Ken is somehow more "feminine" or
							whatever. It's because they are stylized toys that were never
							realistic.

								comment score: 0 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
								Well the issue is bigger, Mattel has a monopoly, they killed
								off the competition. In the 80s there were plenty anatomically
								more acceptable dolls on the market.

			comment score: 6 | u/CheesyChips
			You’re saying ken isn’t ‘a man’ because he’s effeminate and cute.
			There are lots of effeminate and cute men and that doesn’t make
			them any less of a man or not a man because of that. Men aren’t
			more or less men because they appear more ‘cute’ or hard and
			muscular.

	comment score: 11 | u/MizDiana
	> What triggers should be avoided when communicating with my fellow
	feminists? None. The basic principle is this: do not cause unneeded
	suffering to other people. Are you with me so far? Causing unneeded
	suffering is bad! Therefore if you know someone has past trauma that
	can be triggered (as with PTSD, from soldiers or other trauma
	victims), then you don't do that. The same way you don't mock
	veterans for being weaklings as a result of battle trauma. Because
	you don't cause suffering for no good reason if you're a good person.
	Feminists, as a group, cannot be expected to all have one or another
	trauma in their past. Therefore feminists, as a group, do  not
	consistently have any PTSD or other mental health triggers to worry
	about. Now if you were speaking to a crowd of rape victims, that'd be
	different. Then there are triggers to avoid. TL;DR you don't know
	what the word "trigger" means. (Then again, many online don't either.
	For that other online stuff the general rule is - don't be an
	inconsiderate asshole if you want people to not call you an asshole.)

		comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
		OK cool, but is ever so slightly more nuanced than the casual way it
		is thrown around on Reddit, to be honest.

			comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
			Hence the part in parentheses. Also, keep in mind that you don't
			have to adopt harmful framing as your own belief just because it is
			common to mock those that care about others though altering
			"trigger".

	comment score: 9 | u/JulieCrone
	Understanding this is in the context of the Ken doll discussion, and
	looking at your other comments in this thread.... You aren't going to
	get too many feminists saying that dismissing a male doll because it
	looks 'effeminate' is a great thing.  Now, it's not the worst thing
	out there, but we're generally opposed to any suggestion that a man
	presenting in a more feminine way is in any way lesser.  Being
	feminists, we don't think there is anything wrong with femininity and
	there is no reason at all a man can't be feminine. Also, to equate
	young features with feminine features is reinforcing a beauty
	standard that a woman is supposed to look young.   In your posts
	there, it was kind of confusing -- was your real objection to the
	dolls just being too stylized and childish looking, or did you not
	like them being 'effeminate', or is it both?  Nothing wrong with
	preferring more realistic and mature looking dolls, but once you
	start equating looking childish with femininity, and being effeminate
	as something to reject, especially when it is an effeminate man,
	yeah, that does get dicey. In regard to the language issue.  I am
	totally understanding if English isn't your first language and some
	of the lingo is something you don't get.  I'm fine with cutting you
	plenty of slack when it comes to terminology so long as you are
	willing to listen with an open mind when we do explain terminology
	and why we use or don't use something.    You do not need to be an
	'academic' feminist to be a feminist.  Feminism has always had a lot
	of working class women who have done a lot for the movement.
	However, if you're being dismissive of what more academic feminists
	are saying just because you don't get the terms right away, that's no
	better than dismissing someone for not being aware of the terms.
	Also, if your response to recommendations on books or documentaries
	is "now I have to go read/watch stuff to understand this?" that does
	look like you are unwilling to try to meet us halfway.  Don't have
	the time, money, resources to watch or read something?  Totally
	understandable, and I don't think anyone would fault you for that.
	But to treat any recommendations hostilely does make it seem like you
	aren't really interested to learn where we are coming from.

		comment score: -2 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
		Case in point, your post versus the rest. Thanks for the
		conciliatory response, I really appreciate it. I'm sorry if I'm not
		bringing my thoughts across properly, too busy getting personally
		crucified as a bad parent I suppose. So in my naivety I expected
		more of a intellectual response something to ponder and dissect in
		an ethnographic or anthropological fashion. And there was two posts
		like that. Obviously this is not the right forum to discuss things
		at that level. As far as my willingness to learn more, running your
		own business, having boys, it's tough, i thought this was a good
		place to pick up, with alienating comments like I've had, I'd sooner
		lurk and find a place where I am allowed to be broken. Perhaps if I
		requested a grandfather Ken I would have stepped on more toes, could
		have been worse. At least Mattel has their token black firefighter
		in place, a manly one also.

			comment score: 7 | u/JulieCrone
			> So in my naivety I expected more of a intellectual response
			something to ponder and dissect in an ethnographic or
			anthropological fashion. And there was two posts like that.
			Obviously this is not the right forum to discuss things at that
			level. To be fair, this isn’t a forum for anthropologists or
			ethnographers, and many of us don’t have backgrounds in either
			subjects.  This is a feminist form, and since your initial post did
			come across as ‘effeminate Ken = bad’ that is something feminists
			will call out since we don’t agree with belittling femininity.   >
			As far as my willingness to learn more, running your own business,
			having boys, it's tough, i thought this was a good place to pick
			up, with alienating comments like I've had, I'd sooner lurk and
			find a place where I am allowed to be broken. You’re absolutely
			allowed here to be broken or learning, and totally understand if
			you don’t have tons of time to spend on reading feminist material.
			However, I would recommend that, just as you want us be
			understanding of you, be understanding of the posters here and do
			not assume any challenge or criticism of a position is a personal
			attack. > Perhaps if I requested a grandfather Ken I would have
			stepped on more toes, could have been worse. At least Mattel has
			their token black firefighter in place, a manly one also. I think
			Grandpa Ken would be awesome.  Who says all dolls need to be young
			or at least well below retirement age?  My husband and I are going
			to be grandparents soon and I would totally buy him a Grandpa Ken.
			As for that last sentence, see there is the thing — why do you keep
			wanting to call one particular body type ‘manly’?  If a man is 5’1”
			and 115 lbs, why is he not ‘manly’?  Why send the message out to
			your kids that there is a very small definition of what is ‘manly’?
			They may end up with tall and athletic builds, but that doesn’t
			mean someone with a different build is less manly.  It’s fine if
			children want dolls that look like them or their parents - totally
			natural, and part of the reason for making dolls like Barbie more
			diverse.  Once you start saying that one build is ‘manly’ and the
			others aren’t and their is the implication that manly = better,
			that is where feminists will ask you to think on what those
			implications are.

				comment score: -4 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
				Well the thing is according to the growth charts my oldest will be
				just on 2 metres like his grandfather. And the youngest have
				shoulders like superman. Now to have a doll that's like them is
				already out of the question. The problem is the dolls Matel is
				marketing as masculine is WWF dolls with crazy muscles. There is
				nothing in between, and my kids are growing into that void, and I
				get the idea that a well proportioned 6 foot 6 male, somehow
				represents a toxic form of masculinity. And that is why we can't
				have dolls like that. Can you understand my dilemma?

					comment score: 7 | u/JulieCrone
					Except no one is saying you can’t have dolls like that, or that
					those dolls in and of themselves represent toxic masculinity.
					Many (most) of the Ken dolls have an athletic build, but not all
					and you came across one that didn’t.  I know in the other thread
					people linked to several different dolls with different builds,
					most of which are more athletic. There absolutely are a lot of
					dolls with builds between the very slim build and the wrestler
					build.   But yeah, dolls with slight builds exist.  That they
					exist is not an affront on anyone with a different build.

						comment score: -4 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
						Thanks, you are the very first person to acknowledge that. And I
						see you got down voted for wanting Grandpa Ken. Lol

							comment score: 6 | u/JulieCrone
							Everyone else has been saying pretty much the same.  If your
							kid wants a doll that looks like them, fine.  But there is no
							reason to be harsh or insulting about the builds of dolls that
							don’t look like them and say that build is ‘unmanly’ and
							‘effeminate’ as if there is something wrong with being either.
							Edit:  I don’t mind if someone downvotes my post.  It’s cool If
							someone disagrees and if I were to get a lot of downvoted,
							that’s good feedback that maybe I need to rethink my
							perspective.

								comment score: -2 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
								There is fine line there, Ken isn't a real person and in his
								current form does not look particularly human, he is looking
								more and more like a Disney character and the facial
								distortion goes beyond the feminine to infantile. Nobody looks
								like that, so harshness about it is not entirely misplaced.
								Same with Barbie, so feel a critical look at the issue is not
								harming anyone? It's like their last Bob the Builder
								figurines, some of them were universally rejected by all the
								children I saw, there was this barefoot surfer dude nobody
								played with ever.

					comment score: 6 | u/ami_anai
					I think you'll be happy to learn that Mattel has released Ken
					dolls in different body types, skin colors, and hairstyles so
					that more kids can have dolls that look somewhat like them:
					[http://mentalfloss.com/article/502106/diverse-ken-dolls-now-
					come-different-body-types-skin-
					colors](http://mentalfloss.com/article/502106/diverse-ken-dolls-
					now-come-different-body-types-skin-colors) There's also a
					dollmaker called Lammily that seeks to make dolls with human
					proportions: [http://mentalfloss.com/article/76778/doll-combat-
					unrealistic-male-body-
					image](http://mentalfloss.com/article/76778/doll-combat-
					unrealistic-male-body-image) A problem with most dolls and action
					figures (and especially Mattel's Barbie and Ken) is that they
					just aren't that realistic. You're right, Mattel doesn't make a
					doll that looks just like your kid...or any kid. Their forms are
					stylized and they typically have proportions that would be
					physically impossible for a living, breathing human. You seem to
					be arguing that switching from the old style of Ken doll to the
					new one(s) represents some sort of censure on your sons'
					projected future body type ("I get the idea that a well
					proportioned 6 foot 6 male, somehow represents a toxic form of
					masculinity"), but in reality the doll never was their body type.
					It was a hyperstylized, unrealistic version of their body type
					and switching to slightly more realistic and/or diverse body
					types is not a censure on them or people who look like them, it's
					just an effort to make a range of dolls that look like a larger
					range of people.

						comment score: 0 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
						Great post. I get the censure vibes from here and everywhere in
						a subtle way. And that is why I feel the low effort corporate
						way to boost diversity is to simply make the stereotypical 6
						foot white male disappear. In my days Tom Selleck was like an
						uber sex god, now things are different and it's fine, and then
						your child is a Tom Selleck, and then it's still toxic
						masculinity personified. It's like the G I Joe dolls, less angry
						would have looked like most males around here, but politically
						that would just be too much, even though you see them everyday.

							comment score: 8 | u/ami_anai
							>I get the censure vibes from here and everywhere in a subtle
							way.  I don't see anyone on this post censuring men, white men,
							tall white men, or any variation of how you've described what
							you think your sons will look like as adults. Saying that
							"feminine" features on new Ken dolls aren't problematic is not
							the same as saying "masculine" features are bad or should
							disappear. It's just saying that it is ok and good for more
							body types to be represented. > In my days Tom Selleck was like
							an uber sex god, now things are different and it's fine, and
							then your child is a Tom Selleck, and then it's still toxic
							masculinity personified.  If most of the depictions of men in
							advertising, tv, movies, dolls, etc. look one particular way,
							that's problematic and can send toxic messages to kids who will
							never look that way (i.e. "if you aren't 6'6", ripped, blonde,
							and white with a strong jaw, you're an inferior man"). However,
							an individual who looks that way is not toxic masculinity, nor
							is an individual doll that looks that way toxic. Pushing to
							expand the sort of looks that are represented to decrease toxic
							messaging does not mean the looks that were already represented
							are inherently toxic.  > the low effort corporate way to boost
							diversity is to simply make the stereotypical 6 foot white male
							disappear  Thing is, the "stereotypical 6 foot white male" is
							still represented, even if he's not quite as overrepresented as
							he used to  be. You can still buy a hunky tall white Ken doll
							if that's what you want. The fact that the facial mold has
							changed or that there are also Ken dolls with slightly
							different builds and skin tones does not erase white men, it
							just makes them a little less overrepresented. That's a good
							thing because every kid should have toys that represent them.
							Your kid did and still does; some other kids didn't and now
							they do.

								comment score: -1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
								Thing is that 6 foot Ken type dolls does not exist anymore.
								It's either super slim hipster Ken, or WWF steroid muscle
								hero. There are an athletic slight soccer Ken with a better
								face. But that is it, nothing in between. And nobody wants to
								acknowledge that. Oh, and like I said the token black
								firefighter.

									comment score: 3 | u/ami_anai
									Ken dolls come in three body types: a slim, a broad, and an
									in between. None of them look like WWF fighters to me, but if
									you think the thin one is too "hipster" and the broad one is
									too "WWF", there is a medium option. The exact old type of
									doll doesn't exist, but I think any of the current ones could
									represent a 6 foot tall man within three weight ranges. If
									anything, I think they should add more heavy body
									proportions.  I'm not sure what you mean  by a token black
									firefighter. You can get any of the body types in a range of
									skin tones and hair styles from Mattel. Maybe your local
									store just has a poor selection.

										comment score: -1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
										I'm afraid you are wrong about the products on offer, no "in
										between" in the stores.

		comment score: 2 | u/ami_anai
		I can't speak to whoever stocks your local store, of course, but
		Mattel does sell 3 different body types of Ken. There is an in
		between body type available.  https://barbie.mattel.com/en-
		us/about/fashionistas.html

			comment score: 0 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
			We have those, they are all delicate/slight boys, unless black or
			tanned is a body type?  Then the WWE.
			https://shop.mattel.com/shop/en-us/ms/wwe-toys/wwe-top-picks-seth-
			rollins-elite-collection-figure-gft71 Nothing in between. Which one
			would dad be now?

				comment score: 1 | u/ami_anai
				Look, feminism as a movement has no control over what is in or out
				of stock at individual retail outlets. I've linked multiple times
				to where you can buy them from Mattel. It seems like you're
				creating a problem for yourself and then complaining about it
				instead of doing the rational thing and buying the doll you want
				from a different retailer.

					comment score: 0 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
					So do you agree that there is no in between body shape from
					Mattel? Part of the issue here it seems is that a body shape or
					aesthetic automatically carries a political message. I don't like
					man bun Ken and therefore somebody labeled me as transphobic and
					homophobic. You see the issue here somebody's projecting their
					stereotype ideas on me. God, most of the gays I know don't fit
					the stereotypes. In essence it seems the G I Joe body type
					triggers the same, he is being judged on aesthetics.

						comment score: 3 | u/ami_anai
						No! I linked to the in between! It's called "original" and it's
						right there and you can buy it.

							comment score: 0 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
							As in number 10, the black guy they call Original? No actually
							that's also one of the Fashionistas.

							comment score: 3 | u/KaliTheCat
							I mean, don't hang around then. Honestly. I'm tired of your
							chastising.

			comment score: 2 | u/oracular_duck
			I think you want r/MensLib.

	comment score: 6 | u/Elle890
	I can't tell if this is fake or not. I'm leaning towards fake, but on
	the off chance this is real: If you are "straight talking" -- which
	usually means "being honest" -- and the stuff you say is sexist,
	racist, homophobic, transphobic, or otherwise shows you have fucked
	up opinions about large groups of people, I'm not sure why you think
	you would somehow be immune from criticism. If your only defense is,
	"I was being honest when I said bigoted stuff," that's...not really a
	defense.  So...don't say bigoted stuff. Better yet, don't believe
	bigoted things. And if someone tells you that you said something
	bigoted, honestly and openly try to figure out why it was bad, and
	then learn and grow from that.  You seem to see this whole thing as
	"Feminists won't let me engage unless I go along with their party
	line." Change your perspective to, "Feminists aren't here to ignore
	or put up with attitudes rooted in sexism." I'm not sure why you'd
	think otherwise.  Also, that's not what "triggers" mean.

		comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
		What exactly did I say to deserve the racist, transphobic and
		homophobic lablles?

			comment score: 1 | u/Elle890
			>If

	comment score: 4 | u/Ayeprihl
	You actually have to show feminist ideals to be a feminist. Something
	you have not demonstrated in your weird post about Ken

		comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
		But you can't extrapolate my whole existence from one conflicting
		post. But that's exactly what is happening.

			comment score: 6 | u/Ayeprihl
			Being feminist is not just saying you’re a feminist. You clearly
			lack in some pretty standard feminist ideals...

				comment score: 1 | u/Adornment-F (OP)
				That is so easy to say without going into specifics, and that is
				also gatekeeping in my mind.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 26 comments | 2020-04-20 | https://redd.it/g4p04v
POST TITLE: Got told that every women’s issue’s root cause is men. Am I being blind ?
[deleted]

	comment score: 21 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
	Did they say “men” or “patriarchy”? These two things are not the
	same. I feel like they either used the word patriarchy and you
	assumed it to be “men”, *or* they’re confused and meant “patriarchy”
	but used the term “men” in place of that, which is not correct.
	Because a lot of things that hinder women (and men) are due to the
	patriarchy, not everything, but a great deal— at least, when it comes
	to gendered issues alone.

		comment score: -1 | u/AlexTweaks
		It was more of them outright saying men.     I didn’t assume
		anything I made my view clear to them and made sure to get her to
		clarify what she was saying exactly.    They definitely know and
		understand what patriarchy (way better than I do) is. If she claimed
		patriarchy was the cause of an nearly all her issues I’d have to
		agree with her.

			comment score: 8 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
			Well then, no, you are not missing anything. She’s incorrect. While
			men individually can and do certainly contribute to the patriarchy,
			so can and do women. I only asked because a lot of people conflate
			the two, and I find myself trying to specify the difference very
			often.

				comment score: -6 | u/IsolatedException
				It's refreshing to see all the feminist who commented here say
				this too. It wasn't all that long ago when it was different even
				here on this sub.

					comment score: 11 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
					I’ve been lurking for years, and I’ve seen every single mod and
					long-time member specify that there was a difference between men
					and the patriarchy, so I don’t know where you’ve been.

						comment score: -4 | u/IsolatedException
						Im mostly a lurker here (3-4 yrs) too. But I'm referring to
						comments that get a lot of upvotes without there being many to
						counter/respond to it. That's all.

	comment score: 8 | u/vanillazuella
	Coaching people had got me to realize that some social structures are
	ingrained. So it might be the patriarchy speaking through the voices
	of men. I don't think men would be the root cause of all women's
	issues but definitely control and power that comes through
	patriarchal structures are.

		comment score: 1 | u/AlexTweaks
		Agreed , there are some inequalities that can never really be
		“solved “ for example , less attractive people have a harder time in
		society as a whole , people are way friendlier to attractive people
		etc which is a biological impulse.

			comment score: 4 | u/vanillazuella
			That point is relevant to both men and women - less attractive men
			have an even harder time than women. They often state
			"invisibility" and that is what prompts them towards attention
			demanding behavior.

				comment score: 8 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
				Considering “less attractive” women are denounced for rape claims
				on the grounds of not being “rapeable”, I’m not going to sit here
				and say “oh my god men have it worse with all that loneliness.”

					comment score: 2 | u/vanillazuella
					You've taken a really specific example in this case. PS : Men get
					raped too. And rape is also about power and control.

						comment score: 5 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
						Literally no one said men didn’t get raped, nor that it wasn’t
						about power and control, what is your point? I’m saying that
						women who are considered “ugly” are often called liars for a
						rape claim because of the ideation that [“no one wants to rape
						ugly women”](https://www.lipstickalley.com/threads/north-
						carolina-republicans-use-fake-photo-to-imply-dr-ford-was-too-
						ugly-to-rape.1871593/), a wrong ideation, [but an ideation used 
						nonetheless](https://apnews.com/6361b8de2200469d8f423b8fecdee771
						). I don’t see the point of screaming “but what about the men!?”
						When I’m not talking about an issue they face, I’m talking about
						a pretty fucking horrible issue women face that you just
						undermined by going down the “but men have it *worse*” route.

							comment score: 1 | u/vanillazuella
							Well youre also comparing the problem of rape with the problem
							of loneliness. I didn't say men have it worse at all. You also
							brought up rape in this context. I'm not asking what about men.
							OP was questioning whether all women's problems were because of
							men. My contention is everyone has problems because of
							patriarchy. The next comment stared that unattractive women
							have it bad, I talked about unattractive men. Then you
							discussed rape. I said rape was an equal problem too, due to
							patriarchal norms.

								comment score: 3 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
								No... I never said loneliness doesn’t affect men, I denounced
								that it’s worse to have the issue of loneliness when you
								claimed is more drastic than what women experience. The
								patriarchy literally puts “attractive” above anything else for
								women. Men can be powerful, they can be confident, they can be
								leaders, women can be attractive. If that wasn’t the case, we
								wouldn’t be sitting here watching people dismiss Hillary for
								her choice in clothing, or complaining about what Melina Trump
								wears, but we do, because a woman’s worth is placed in her
								looks in the way a man’s is not. And then, when I pointed out
								one of these issues, you tried to dismiss me by essentially
								saying I was “reaching” in not so many words, telling me men
								get raped too (literally no one said they didn’t) and that
								rape was about power (which, duh) when that wasn’t the point I
								was making. My point is we can say “men have a tough time when
								it comes to looks” without dismissing the struggles women face
								when it comes to looks, which is exactly what you did when
								you, the initial person who made the comment, decided to throw
								in a competition in the first place.  I’m not denouncing that
								men have struggles. I’m denouncing trying to belittle the
								struggles of women in favour of acting as if women just have a
								grand time with no issues around it, which is 100% what you
								insinuated.

									comment score: -1 | u/vanillazuella
									I think you're definitely putting words and attributions to
									my sentences of which I have no intent. If you don't choose
									to see the strength in the argument and wish to focus on your
									POV cheers to that.

										comment score: 5 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
										You literally said “men have it worse because of
										loneliness”, but sure.

		comment score: -2 | u/IsolatedException
		You're using quotes but haven't actually quoted them saying that
		though.

			comment score: 5 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
			Sure, if you want the exact quote, it still says the same thing
			with different words.  > less attractive men have an even harder
			time than women.

				comment score: 1 | u/IsolatedException
				Oh. So did you take women to mean ALL women and not the average,
				generalized one used for making comparisons. Either way, it could
				have been worded better but instead of asking questions you are
				jumping to the worst possible case scenario. Like, why even
				discuss anything at this point if it's not to help?

					comment score: 3 | u/mymiddlenameisrae
					Nope, definitely meant “average”. Claiming that “averagely”, less
					attractive men have it worse than less attractive women, is not
					only false, it’s degrading and ignoring big issues women have on
					average. You have a good one.

						comment score: 0 | u/IsolatedException
						Yeah, I can see why you would want to maintain that position.
						thanks for the downvotes too. 🤷

	comment score: 5 | u/MissingBrie
	The patriarchy is the cause, not men. Of course, the patriarchy has
	put power overwhelmingly in the hands of men, so there is that.

		comment score: -1 | u/Ahleksx
		Hello, do you have proof of that for the nowaday society pls?

			comment score: 1 | u/MissingBrie
			https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2019/06/29/national/two-female-
			world-leaders-stage-osaka-g20-event-aimed-empowering-
			women/#.Xp5S_x7SU0M

	comment score: 1 | u/ghostfivenine
	It's a bit more complicated than that. A lot of feminist issues stem
	from the patriarchy, a system that is propagated by both men and
	women. People (both men and women) aren't perpetuating the patriarchy
	because they are all inherently sexists and misogynists. They do it
	unconsciously or because it's simply convenient.

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/oracular_duck
		Please respect our top-level comment rule, which requires that all
		direct replies to questions posted to AskFeminists must come from
		feminists and must reflect a feminist perspective. Comment removed;
		this is your only warning.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 8 comments | 2019-04-23 | https://redd.it/bgckm6
POST TITLE: Do you feel there is a correlation between feminists demanding (and receiving) gender-based preferential bias in education, hiring, admissions, promotions, quotas, lower standards, etc and women not given as much respect as their male counterparts?
[deleted]

	comment score: 20 | u/jansuwi
	That bias was there before the gender based preferential treatment.

	comment score: 11 | u/None
	Women have never been given as much respect as their male
	counterparts, regardless of gender-based affirmative action.

	comment score: 11 | u/blackandwhite1987
	Yes, there is absolutely a correlation between "gender quotas" and
	women not being respected in professional roles. This is why these
	policies exist, to counteract implicit biases in hiring decisions -
	basically to force people to respect women similarly to their male
	counterparts.

	comment score: 10 | u/ConcertinaTerpsichor
	Given that women have not been given as much respect as men for over
	6,000 years and that an organized feminist movement has existed for
	less than 200 years, I’d say the correlation is ... non-existant.  😂
	But thank you for letting me have a good laugh at a moronic idea
	first thing in the morning!

	comment score: 9 | u/83cats
	No. The disrespect of women have always been there by default, quotas
	are meant to fix it. Quite the opposite, the more women are getting
	into the field, the more chances they have to showcase their work and
	start being respected for it. Ps I interpreted the question as "do
	you think that the more preferential treatment women get, the less
	professional respect they receive?"

		comment score: 8 | u/KaliTheCat
		> I interpreted the question as "do you think that the more
		preferential treatment women get, the less professional respect they
		receive?" I also interpreted it this way-- as though women weren't
		already not getting professional respect and now it's somehow worse
		because of gender-based hiring initiatives.

	comment score: 8 | u/queerbees
	No

	comment score: 7 | u/Lindaero
	No it was there to begin with. This question doesn't make the best
	sense

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 11 comments | 2019-07-14 | https://redd.it/cd9dlu
POST TITLE: What do you think of Anita sarkeesian and her series Women v tropes
[deleted]

	comment score: 18 | u/MizDiana
	Oh, she is so right. As a woman who plays video games, I've found
	some otherwise great games really get ruined by the sexism in them.
	Definitely a big downside that one sees a lot. There's often a
	question of "how much sexist shit do I feel like ignoring today" when
	certain movies, tv shows, games, etc., come up. It's so much easier
	to enjoy media when it isn't mocking or belittling you.

	comment score: 14 | u/plotthick
	She's spot on.  I've had to give up on a lot of media because of the
	sexism. It's OK if you can't see what she and we are talking about,
	but I gotta say good on you for not telling us to shut up.  Too often
	if someone can't see the problem, they pretend there is no problem.
	Sometimes they even make fun of or attack the people who have the
	problem!  I'm glad you're not that kind of ignoramus.

	comment score: 7 | u/cuittler
	I think they're pretty good, she highlights a lot annoying things I
	noticed about video games growing up and felt crazy because it seemed
	like no one else noticed or cared. One thing that's starting to bug
	me lately is how when she gets brought up so many left-leaning people
	kind of dismiss her videos as "obvious, feminism 101 I didn't care
	for them so elementary". Like come on, who else was getting these
	ideas out to such a wide audience back in 2013 or whenever? Give the
	woman some credit, we didn't have breadtube or many other people
	willing to do what she did. Just comes across like trying to out-woke
	each other, barf.

		comment score: 6 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
		The totally insane reaction to her commentary shows exactly how
		needed her "feminism 101" analysis was.  It's frustrating to see so
		many people dismiss her that way.  I think it really does her a
		disservice and perpetuates the narrative that nobody should like her
		- just from the other side.

			comment score: 4 | u/cuittler
			The woman is a damned role model as far as I'm concerned.

	comment score: 7 | u/Johnsmitish
	Which points do you disagree with specifically?

		comment score: 0 | u/None
		So I cant say all of them because we would be here all day ive
		watched all the episodes but I can give a pretty large one. In her
		lady sidekicks video she starts of by talking about bioshock
		infinte. Ive played it and its not my favorite but here is the wiki
		description of the game "The game is set in the year 1912 and
		follows its protagonist, former Pinkerton agent Booker DeWitt, who
		is sent to the airborne city of Columbia to find a young
		woman, Elizabeth, who has been held captive there for most of her
		life...(I didnt paste a bit of the description its just names and
		the goal of the game) Elizabeth possesses strange powers to
		manipulate "Tears" in the space-time continuum" so Anita sarkeesian
		claims this word for word that Elizabeth serves the purpose of a "
		glorifed door opener" Elizabeth will help in the game by giving
		small items opening door and is key to the story. What bugs me a lot
		is that Ms. Sarkeesian knows that Elizabeth has been locked in a
		tower her a good chunk of her life and the thing is if you were
		locked in a tower most of your life you wouldnt have combat
		experience or know how to use the weapons but Booker does. I don't
		think she is really a glorified door opener because she literally
		wouldn't know what to do she would be unable to know how to proper
		fight or anything not because she is a woman but because her whole
		life she has never know how to. If she was a bot but she did it
		would openly ignore the story. And Elizabeth also states how when
		she was younger her powers were stronger and she could control them
		more so she cant portal here portal there and Ms. Sarkeesian also
		mentions that Elizabeth will stand idly by and wait for enemies to
		be cleared out. If you think about the presvious information mention
		it makes sense and doesn't seem as much of a golrified door opener.
		She doesnt know how to fight due to being locked up in a tower her
		whole life, her powers have gotten weaker as she got older, and she
		cant control them as well so her standing around makese sense
		because she needs to make sure it's safe and she needs time and
		space to relibaly use and control her power. Along with that she is
		less of a sidekick story wise and one of if not the most important
		character who helps the player and makes the story go along. I womt
		spoil anythint but a sidekick could be expendable right but the
		thing is Elizabeth is not you need her and she is needed but Booker
		for reasons until you play the game is expendable over and over
		again. She talks later in the video game that whether a female lead
		is capable or not and starts talking about The last of us. The last
		of us is a beautiful game and the way they develop the two leads
		Joel and Ellie who traverse their way through a post apocalyptic
		america is very good. So I couldnt fully interpret her point made
		but I will do my best. To me it seems she claimed that Ellie was and
		she is (which I do agree with) a very capable, smart, and strong
		young woman but when she comes across a body of water she might as
		well throw that all away. I assume she means that she basically
		falls into the sexist trope of a damsel in distress and Joel the
		male lead has to go out of his way to help her get across the water.
		However it seems she glossed over the fact that Ellie can't swim and
		that without spoling too much of the story they come to devlop a
		father daughter role and Joel wants to make sure she can continue on
		their journey because I mean what else was he supposed to do leave
		her there to drown? Ellie doesn't know how to swim but this doesnt
		take away how strong of a person she is she can make a bow by hand
		and hunt her food and sustain herself and has a lot skills she
		learned by herself and perfected. She doesnt know how to swim and in
		a post apocalyptic wasteland I think its more important to know how
		to hunt your own food and follow tracks and such than it is to swim
		and I think its very unfair that because at one small point of the
		story she cant do something and needs to be helped turns her entire
		character into a damsel in distress. Anyway this is a big point(s) I
		disagree with and I also admit again I do have bias so please if you
		disagree with me please let me know and I would like to hear what
		you think. Thank you

			comment score: 15 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
			>What bugs me a lot is that Ms. Sarkeesian knows that Elizabeth has
			been locked in a tower her a good chunk of her life and the thing
			is if you were locked in a tower most of your life you wouldnt have
			combat experience or know how to use the weapons but Booker does.
			They wrote it that way.  She's not an actual person who was locked
			in a tower and is now doing her best, she's a character who the
			authors chose to say was locked in a tower.  Creating an in-game
			justification for a sexist trope doesn't erase or excuse using the
			trope.

			comment score: 10 | u/Johnsmitish
			Holy shit. You gotta format this man, I mean jesus christ.

			comment score: 1 | u/KyanbuXM
			An easy way to look at it is this. The point of tropes against
			women is to ask the big question behind why the creators/writers
			choose to do what they did with the story. And how their reasoning,
			be it intentional or not. Is based in sexism, either from their
			beliefs, the market and society, or the environment they grew up
			in.

	comment score: 1 | u/KyanbuXM
	She's pretty much entirely right. Even some of the minor continuity
	errors are irrelevant to the point. Which is sexism in gaming. It may
	not always be intentional but that doesn't negate the fact that it's
	sexist.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 37 comments | 2019-08-13 | https://redd.it/cpr5kb
POST TITLE: Are feminist models liable to confirmation bias?
Often when I see research or writings on feminism and patriarchy, it's generally looking at a societal observation and explaining how they fall into a feminist lens. That to me seems to be backwards with regards to starting with the answer and interpreting reality in a way that agrees with the model. 
Given that it's possible to have two or more interpretations for any given scenario, when each outcome has it's own benefits and drawbacks. How do you know which interpretation is right?
Is there research that undeniably proves patriarchy theory, with respect to any other sociological model?

	comment score: 17 | u/StabWhale
	>Is there research that undeniably proves patriarchy theory, with
	respect to any other sociological model? *Patriarchy is a social
	system in which men hold primary power and predominate in roles of
	political leadership, moral authority, social privilege and control
	of property* Ignoring there's nothing called "patriarchy *theory*",
	you really don't need to do a lot of research to find out that all
	above is true. You're probably going to question the "social
	privilege" part, but really, I think it's evident that a group holds
	social privilege if they hold a big majority of wealth and power.

		comment score: -7 | u/None
		Is it undeniable that men hold the majority of moral authority and
		social privileges? There are definitely strong arguments to be made
		that women hold these. They're at least up for debate and not in the
		least settled. Holding wealth and power is one thing but it's just
		as much a privilege to benefit from them. Many would say it's more
		of a privilege to benefit while sacrificing less risk

			comment score: 19 | u/GreenAscent
			> Holding wealth and power is one thing but it's just as much a
			privilege to benefit from them. You understand that this is just
			the old argument for kingship refashioned, right? That the monarch
			is not privileged over his subjects, as he exerts his power to the
			benefit of his subjects. The classical answer is that the people
			did not agree to be ruled, and furthermore that kings do not, as a
			rule, act unselfishly. Moreover, I think the general success of the
			last few centuries of experimentation with democracy provides some
			empirical evidence for the benefit of power-sharing over
			absolutism.

				comment score: -7 | u/None
				Except individual relationships and pair bonds are nothing like a
				monarchy. To deny that there is no power sharing is to deny
				reality.

					comment score: 8 | u/GreenAscent
					My reply was specifically to the part of your comment concerning
					men holding the majority of wealth and power, which is less about
					relationships between individuals and more about relations
					between a group of people (men) and the social system by which
					individuals obtain power. That said, I would actually argue that
					the traditional family structure places the paterfamilias in a
					position much like that of a monarch.

			comment score: 4 | u/StabWhale
			>Is it undeniable that men hold the majority of moral authority and
			social privileges? There are definitely strong arguments to be made
			that women hold these. They're at least up for debate and not in
			the least settled. Moral authority is pretty easy. Who make up for
			a big majority of religious leaders and philosopers? I know there's
			a stereotype stone people hold that women are more moral than men,
			but even if I were to accept that they certainly have less power to
			change the morals of society as a whole.  Social there's much
			evidence in favor of women having less social privilege, but there
			certainly are a number of situations where a man has less.
			>Holding wealth and power is one thing but it's just as much a
			privilege to benefit from them.  You seriously think the people
			holding onto wealth and power who's ultimately deciding what to do
			with it, always use it in a way that most women benefit from?
			>Many would say it's more of a privilege to benefit while
			sacrificing less risk Sorry what? The risks of that exactly? Losing
			power and wealth to gain the "privilege" of everyone else?

	comment score: 14 | u/threewholefish
	I think you're misunderstanding how proof of a theory works. We have
	no undeniable proof that Newton's theory of gravity or Einstein's
	theory of relativity are correct, we simply understand them to be
	accurate-enough models of the observable phenomenon of "things being
	attracted to other things" at different scopes. Which sociological
	model do you believe to be correct?

		comment score: 0 | u/None
		Well this is the thing. Newton's theory of gravity *isn't* correct.
		It's actually been superseded by Einstein. It's a good approximation
		but you have to invent the planet Vulcan for his theory to true.  Do
		you think there is a feminist version of Vulcan that has been
		invented to explain how society works? I would generally subscribe
		to a evo-psych model. That most human behaviours have evolved to a
		certain extent and neither gender is better than the other but
		simply complementary.

			comment score: 13 | u/threewholefish
			>Well this is the thing. Newton's theory of gravity *isn't*
			correct. It's actually been superseded by Einstein. Did you read
			what I said? They are each accurate-enough in their own scope. In
			any case, the theory of relativity is *still an approximate model*.
			>Do you think there is a feminist version of Vulcan that has been
			invented to explain how society works? I'm not sure a hypothetical
			construct has ever had to be relied upon for the patriarchy model
			to work. >I would generally subscribe to a evo-psych model. That
			most human behaviours have evolved to a certain extent and neither
			gender is better than the other but simply complementary. ~~Is
			there research that undeniably proves evo-psych theory, with
			respect to any other sociological model?~~ Feminists also believe
			that no genders or sexes are better than any other. However, we
			also believe that our current society was set up and is perpetuated
			by men for their benefit at the expense of women. I don't think
			these are comparable theories, as evo-psych seems to focus on why
			individuals exhibit particular behaviours, and the patriarchy looks
			at the oppression of women as a class by men as a class.

				comment score: 2 | u/None
				>I'm not sure a hypothetical construct has ever had to be relied
				upon for the patriarchy model to work. >However, we also believe
				that our current society was set up and is perpetuated by men for
				their benefit at the expense of women.  This is a hypothetical
				construction. It's not proven or provable. It's just as easy to
				say our society was set up to protect women at the expense of men.
				Given every society is built on the the dead that protected them.

					comment score: 6 | u/threewholefish
					So what you're doing is disagreeing with the theory itself,
					rather than a construct to support it. If you don't agree with it
					then that's one thing, but don't come here and criticise feminist
					theory for not being proven or provable, because no social model
					is or will be either.

						comment score: 1 | u/None
						I do disagree with it. I'm not hiding that. But I am saying the
						evidence that exists does more to disprove the theory than it
						does to prove it. Most of the interpretation that is used to
						prove the theory can as easily be swung the other way. While
						evidence that doesn't prove feminist theory is just omitted.

							comment score: 8 | u/threewholefish
							Men as a class hold more social, legal and financial power than
							women as a class. We can argue all day about how "provable"
							this is, but that won't get us anywhere. We believe different
							things, likely based on the same or similar evidence. How would
							you explain men holding more political positions, earning more
							and having (in general) more rights than women? Do you dismiss
							any studies you find that disprove evo-psych theory?

								comment score: 0 | u/None
								Men aren't a class. They're a sex. Individual men don't
								generally benefit from other individual men having power.  The
								same can't be said for individual women who can and do benefit
								from individual men having power. Hence why men and women are
								generally considered complimentary

									comment score: 10 | u/threewholefish
									>Men aren't a class. They're a sex. The concepts of "men" and
									"women" are social constructs based on sex characteristics.
									People treat you differently knowing or perceiving that you
									are a "man" or a "woman". Replace "class" with "group" if you
									don't like that word. >Individual men don't generally benefit
									from other individual men having power. The same can't be
									said for individual women who can and do benefit from
									individual men having power. What are you talking about?
									>Hence why men and women are generally considered
									complimentary ???????????????????????????????????

										comment score: 1 | u/None
										>The concepts of "men" and "women" are social constructs
										based on sex characteristics. So... Defined by sex and
										sexual characteristics. That's what I said.  >Individual men
										don't generally benefit from other individual men having
										power. The same can't be said for individual women who can
										and do benefit from individual men having power. >What are
										you talking about? >Hence why men and women are generally
										considered complimentary
										>??????????????????????????????????? Pair bonding

		comment score: 7 | u/threewholefish
		>So... Defined by sex and sexually characteristics. That's what I
		said. You said they "are a sex", which is not the same. Trans people
		exist. Non binary people exist. Sex characteristics don't always
		correspond with you being a man or a woman, yet people will often
		treat you differently based their perception of your
		characteristics. >Pair bonding This has absolutely nothing to do
		with the power imbalance between men and women. Here are some other
		points to think about: 1. Non-cis non-straight people exist 2. Non-
		monogamous people exist 3. The atomic family is another social
		construct that, while not bad in and of itself, is seen at the only
		acceptable model of a family and excludes non-monogamous (and in
		some more extreme societies, non-straight) people 4. We're not
		talking about personal relationships, we're talking about all of
		society. How people treat complete strangers as well as friends. How
		people treat whole other groups of people based on their perception
		of them. 5. You're saying it's fine that men have power because some
		women benefit? Presumably you'd also be happy if it were the other
		way around?

			comment score: 2 | u/None
			>You said they "are a sex", which is not the same. You're thinking
			that I'm talking about gender. I'm not. Simply sex. Statistically
			speaking and societally speaking they're irrelevant. That's not too
			deny their existence but to deny their existence had any meaningful
			influence on society.  >3. The ~~atomic~~ nuclear family is another
			social construct that, while not bad in and of itself, is seen at
			the only acceptable model of a family and excludes non-monogamous
			(and in some more extreme societies, non-straight) people.
			Generally because wealth is inherited, before the invention of
			litigious societies and technology, non-monogomy only serves to
			split resources and increase competition.  >You're saying it's fine
			that men have power because some women benefit? You're applying a
			value statement under a feminist interpretation of domination where
			there isn't one. Women and men share power as a family unit.

				comment score: 6 | u/threewholefish
				>You're thinking that I'm talking about gender. I'm not. Simply
				sex.  You're conflating "man" and "woman" with some measure of
				biological sex, which is not always the case. >Statistically
				speaking and societally  speaking they're irrelevant. That's not
				too deny their existence but to deny their existence had any
				meaningful influence on society. I'm confused as to what is
				irrelevant here. >Generally because wealth is inherited, before
				the invention of litigious societies and technology, non-monogomy
				only serves to split resources and increase competition. So why do
				non-monogamous behaviours continue to be treated as lesser?
				Especially when women have multiple sexual partners or polyamorous
				relationships. >You're applying a value statement under a feminist
				interpretation of domination where there isn't one.  If one group
				of people earns more than another, do they have more financial
				power? If political positions are held more by one group of
				people, do they have more political power? If one group of people
				is treated better than another in general by society, do they have
				more social power? If the answer to these questions is yes, then
				men have more power than women. If no, then what do you think is
				the social outcome of these discrepancies? >Women and men share
				power as a family unit. Even if they did share power (which I
				disagree is the case in many families), we're not talking about
				family units, we're talking about men being dominant in politics
				and earning more than women and all of the other scenarios where
				men are favoured and women are oppressed. What about women and men
				who do not have families? Are they exactly socially equal?

					comment score: 3 | u/None
					> You're conflating "man" and "woman" with some measure of
					biological sex, which is not always the case. They are the
					minimal requirements needed. Biologically there are only two
					sexes. All else are evolutionary dead ends.  >I'm confused as to
					what is irrelevant here. Their impact on society.  >So why do
					non-monogamous behaviours continue to be treated as lesser?
					Because it limits reproductive security. If you're going to
					invest time and resources into your offspring, you want them to
					be *your* offspring.  >If one group of people earns more than
					another, do they have more financial power? Not if that financial
					"power" is necessary to the survival of the people involved.
					Generally a family unit. Within any unit there's a division of
					power and responsibilities.  >If one group of people is treated
					better than another in general by society, do they have more
					social power? Yes, but which group is treated better? The one,
					who's freedom is limited for their own protection or the one
					who's freedom is limited for the protection of others?  >What
					about women and men who do not have families? Are they exactly
					socially equal? No, these women are generally seen as a virtuous
					and socially powerful. Often so powerful as to apocryphaly launch
					1000 ships.

						comment score: 5 | u/threewholefish
						>They are the minimal requirements needed. Biologically there
						are only two sexes. All else are evolutionary dead ends. This is
						irrelevant. You can call yourself a man or a woman regardless of
						the chromosomes you possess. Other people cannot see your
						chromosomes, so they will classify you based on your secondary
						sex characteristics, among other things. >Their impact on
						society. The social impact of men as a class/group (or women as
						a class/group) on society is irrelevant? How so? >Because it
						limits reproductive security. If you're going to invest time and
						resources into your offspring, you want them to be *your*
						offspring. This is a subjective opinion, and does not address
						the fact that non-monogamous relationships are seen as immoral
						by people who are not in them. >Not if that financial "power" is
						necessary to the survival of the people involved. Generally a
						family unit. Within any unit there's a division of power and
						responsibilities. Why are you so insistent on this idea that
						everyone exists in monogamous straight relationship where
						everyone is equal and there are no problems whatsoever? >Yes,
						but which group is treated better? Men. >The one, who's freedom
						is limited for their own protection Are you implying it is
						beneficial for women not to have agency? >or the one who's
						freedom is limited for the protection of others? Which group of
						people is this? >No, these women are generally seen as a
						virtuous and socially powerful. \[citation needed\] >Often so
						powerful as to apocryphaly launch 1000 ships. In the myth, the
						1000 ships were launched by the Greeks because Helen was "taken"
						by Paris. It was men fighting over a woman. A woman who would
						have been seen as property at the time. Not an amazing analogy.

							comment score: -1 | u/None
							I'm sorry but you're inability to follow basic English or logic
							renders this conversation pointless.  >In the myth, the 1000
							ships were launched by the Greeks because Helen was "taken" by
							Paris. It was men fighting over a woman. A woman who would have
							been seen as property at the time. Not an amazing analogy. Not
							property... But still precious. That's why they were fighting
							to protect her.

								comment score: 4 | u/threewholefish
								>I'm sorry but you're inability to follow basic English or
								logic renders this conversation pointless. I agree that it's
								pointless, but for slightly different reasons. >Not
								property... But still precious. Not precious, but a lesser
								citizen who would not have been allowed to own property, and
								would always have been under the legal control of a man.  >
								That's why they were fighting to protect her. Helen had
								absolutely no agency in this story. She was always under the
								control and "protection" of a man. Does that sound "socially
								powerful" to you? Or does that sound like a description of
								valuable property?

									comment score: 2 | u/None
									Value and power are interchangeable. She had the power to
									generate a liberating force without lifting a finger. They
									weren't fighting to keep her. They were fighting to *free*
									her.

										comment score: 3 | u/threewholefish
										>Value and power are interchangeable No >She had the power
										to generate a liberating force without lifting a  finger.
										They weren't fighting to keep her. They were fighting to
										*free* her. She did not ask for 1000 ships to come and get
										her. AFAIK she was content where she was. Some dudes decided
										to come and get her *for the sake of the marriage*, not
										because she needed or indeed wanted to be "rescued".

	comment score: 13 | u/avocado-nightmare
	I mean if a century of published feminist academics, hard data on
	wage gaps and discrimination isn't undeniable proof to you I don't
	know what would be.

		comment score: 0 | u/None
		Didn't someone do an experiment and completely exposed those
		published feminist academics? “We rewrote a section of Mein Kampf as
		intersectional feminism and this journal has accepted it,” "The trio
		submitted 20 papers with absurdities and “morally fashionable
		political ideas” to significant peer-reviewed academic journals
		exposing a corrupt political agenda in fields such as women’s and
		gender studies, race studies, queer studies and cultural studies,
		the Wall Street Journal reported." So if you can take passages from
		mein kampf and just put feminist buzz words in there, and it gets
		published by major academic journals.  Then maybe the credibility of
		all of those published feminist academics should be questioned?

			comment score: 3 | u/avocado-nightmare
			yeah this "experiment" that "someone" did sounds super real.
			Edited: found [the actual thing you](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
			Grievance_Studies_affair#Criticisms) are talking about, it has
			nothing to do with Mein Kampf, and has been thoroughly criticized
			by academics as a really poorly carried out "exercise" if you could
			even call it that. If you want to criticize the academic peer-
			review process, that's fine, but maybe start doing so by actually
			correctly citing your sources.

		comment score: -1 | u/None
		100 years isn't really that long of a time frame. Does it take into
		account technological development as well? I would say technology
		has had much more impact on "liberating" women than sociological
		changes. Which would indicate a strong biological component to our
		society. Edit: there is thousands of years of religious scholarship
		do you think that is valid due to the time scale of existence?

			comment score: 11 | u/tigalicious
			I'm getting the impression that you think "patriarchy theory" is
			some kind of conspiracy theory that is in conflict with
			evolutionary psychology. It is not.  There is nothing inconsistent
			about believing that certain societal systems "evolved" with us as
			a species, while also acknowledging that some societal systems,
			including our present one, grant men more access to power. However,
			if you think your belief about evopsych changes anything about
			whether that system is *ethical*, then you're falling into a
			classic appeal to nature fallacy.

	comment score: 11 | u/GreenAscent
	Can you give an example of an article published in a major, peer
	reviewed journal (e.g. *Gender and Society*) which you think falls
	into this category? It is very hard to reason about "writings" as an
	abstract without knowing which papers in particular you refer to.
	Regardless, the scientific method is to construct a hypothesis, and
	then make experiments or observations to confirm or deny that
	hypothesis. The superior hypothesis is the one which best explains
	the observations; and, in the absence of data which can only be
	explained by one model, the hypothesis requiring the fewest
	assumptions. Sometimes, multiple competing hypotheses exist -- for
	example, string theory and causal fermions currently coexist in
	physics.  The theory of the patriarchy really just states that the
	obviously visible difference in life-outcomes between men and women
	is best explained through culture rather than through biology. This
	is elegant, because it is very easy to observe cultural differences
	in how men and women are treated -- for a few random examples,
	parents interact very differently with boys and girls, and men and
	women have very different experiences in the job market. Evidence for
	the competing hypothesis (major biological differences causing
	divergent life-outcomes) remains scarce, and the theory requires
	massive assumptions about past evolutionary conditions which amount
	to little more than conjecture. In other words, Occam's razor. > Is
	there research that undeniably proves patriarchy theory, That is not
	how science works. You can never prove, only disprove. I would
	suggest reading Popper, if you are interested in this.

		comment score: -1 | u/None
		>and the theory requires massive assumptions about past evolutionary
		conditions which amount to little more than conjecture. This I would
		disagree with. There is plenty of evidence to describe our past
		environmental conditions. It's hardly conjecture, and no offense,
		sounds similar to something Ken Ham would say.

			comment score: 10 | u/avocado-nightmare
			there is not even remotely enough evidence of early human or pre-
			human societies for us to begin extrapolating what role, if any,
			patriarchal social systems have had on human evolution. Most of
			human culture falls in the "neutral" category of traits on the
			evolutionary spectrum of "adaptive" "neutral" and "maladaptive".
			That's the primary reason human cultures are so diverse. Evo-Psych
			as it relates to theories of gender is mostly a bunch of arm-chair
			"anthropologists" applying their modern patriarchal values onto the
			past in whatever way seems the most convenient to them.

			comment score: 9 | u/GreenAscent
			There is *some* evidence to describe past environmental conditions,
			not how those conditions have impacted selective pressures -- what
			I refer to as "evolutionary conditions". We also cannot say how any
			specific set of selective pressures would impress on psychology,
			given that we do not have a theory of psychological heritability
			which makes predictions on unseen data. In fact, given the subject,
			we do not even have the ability to test any theory of psychological
			heritability outside of the influence of culture! In order to make
			the argument that societal gender segregation is a result of our
			evolutionary past, you need first to assume a specific
			(unobservable) interaction of environment and society in the
			distant past, then to assume a (currently unverified) theory of
			psychological heritability. Not to mention the fact that *we don't
			have a psychological fossil record*, which makes the drawing of
			inferences about the direction of evolution much harder. As for Ken
			Ham, he's a creationist, right? The evopsych argument of "present
			society is caused by unobserved factors in our past" should be
			right up his alley.

			comment score: 2 | u/MizDiana
			Not really. The field of human behavior and evolution can't even
			figure out if our past environment encouraged monogamy or not. The
			debate rages.

	comment score: 4 | u/chloapsoap
	>       Given that it’s possible to have two or more interpretations
	for any given scenario, when each outcome has it’s own benefits and
	drawbacks. How do you know which interpretation is right? The one
	that better conforms to reality would be the more correct if any
	given interpretation. The social sciences utilize the same philosophy
	that the physical sciences do. Observation, hypothesis, test, result,
	conclusion.  Charles Darwin hypothesized the theory of evolution by
	natural selection, and it was shown again and again to be the most
	correct interpretation of speciation. It didn’t matter what lens you
	view it through. There are plenty of examples of biologists believing
	they found a contradiction to Darwin’s theory only to discover that
	it indeed supported it. All emperical evidence leads to the same
	conclusion. This is the exact same method by which the social
	sciences make claims to truth

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	If you're talking about sociology, feminism is one of the only models
	that talks solely about women and the patriarchy, but I think you'll
	find some conflict theorists also talk about the power imbalance
	between men and women. However, the way sociologists look at the
	patriarchy is going to be different to how anthropologists, or
	psychologists, or other researchers would look at it. There has been
	a lot of research done in these areas, so I would recommend reading
	more, and learning the science. It won't hurt to read a couple peer-
	reviewed articles, and learn as much as possible in order to form
	your own opinions.  From a combination of lived experience and data,
	I have come to the conclusion that women have been mistreated for a
	very long time, and I think that it is an unfair power imbalance.
	That is why I'm a feminist.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 33 comments | 2019-03-22 | https://redd.it/b42wac
POST TITLE: Why is it unacceptable for women (often dubbed "TERFs") to express discomfort with changing clothes in front of individuals with a penis, and how do lesbians reconcile not dating pre-op transwomen due to their having a penis and being all-inclusive and progressive?
[deleted]

	comment score: 16 | u/Johnsmitish
	That's not what TERFs are doing. Trying to degrade all of their
	hatred and discrimination down to just being uncomfortable with
	changing near a trans person is insulting.

		comment score: -4 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 17 | u/Johnsmitish
			To answer your question, if someone said "I don't wanna change
			around that trans person, they're a man", then yeah, I'd consider
			that transphobic. If they were just uncomfortable with changing and
			seeing a naked penis near them, I'd encourage them to realize that
			that person is a woman, through and through, no matter what their
			physical sex is.  There's a huge difference between being
			uncomfortable changing around a man and literally disregarding
			someone's gender identity. TERFs aren't just hanging around,
			bemoaning how trans women are using the bathroom. They're literally
			persecuting them. That's why this post is pretty insulting, because
			it kind of simplifies all the disgusting transphobia that TERFs
			spout down to "I don't want to change with a penis near me".

	comment score: 14 | u/tigalicious
	TERFs are transphobes, but not all transphobes are TERFs.  Similarly,
	trans people don't want to date transphobes or other people who
	aren't attracted to them. Nobody needs to force themselves to date
	anybody. People who care about kindness and self-improvement should
	always think critically about their beliefs though.

	comment score: 11 | u/MizDiana
	> Why is it unacceptable for women (often dubbed "TERFs") to express
	discomfort with changing clothes in front of individuals with a penis
	It's not. It's unacceptable for them to force women out of women's
	spaces. > how do lesbians reconcile not dating pre-op transwomen due
	to their having a penis Depends on the lesbian. Generally, if they're
	not attracted to someone they don't have sex with them. (I mean,
	duh!!) Other lesbians do date trans women, if they are attracted to
	them. Were you unaware of this? > being all-inclusive and
	progressive? That doesn't require you to date people you're not
	attracted to. Was this unclear?!?!? > How does a lesbian woman who is
	not attracted to penis reconcile refusing to date transwomen who have
	a penis? Again, "I'm not attracted to you, so I'm not going to date
	you" works pretty damn well.  > Is not the act of refusing to date
	transwomen because of their genitalia an admission that they are not
	"like regular (cis) women"? In that, if they haven't had bottom
	surgery, do we acknowledge they have a penis? Yes. And yes, that is a
	difference with cis women. I mean, we're not ignoring reality here,
	LOL. > It seems to me that lesbians must either accept pre-op
	transwomen as being like any other (cis) women, and therefore accept
	dating someone with a penis, or they must make the admission that
	pre-op transwomen are not "real" women because of their penis, and
	therefore betray their transphobia. You're a little overly obsessed
	with cock. It's not transphobic to date someone if you're not
	attracted to them because of their penis. It's only transphobic to
	date someone *you are attracted to* simply because they are trans. >
	There does not appear to be a medium between the two, as best I can
	tell. I'm being repetitive, I know. Too much teaching. But the answer
	to this question is: You are incorrect. Those aren't the only
	options.

		comment score: 2 | u/None
		[deleted]

			comment score: 2 | u/MizDiana
			> I apologize if I have offended you. Nope. Just trying to be clear
			& not vague/mealy-mouthed. For most lesbians I've interacted with,
			a penis is a downside - but also not most important thing to them
			when looking at who to date. For example: "are they pretty?" and
			"do they make me laugh?" are often more important to them. > if a
			lesbian woman is not attracted to another woman because of her
			penis, whom she would have been attracted to had she had a vagina,
			is that transphobic? No. > If so, does that mean that lesbian women
			not dating trans women specifically because they have a penis is
			transphobic? No. Bonus answer for a question you didn't ask (but
			which also comes up in real life): It's not transphobic for a
			lesbian (or other sexuality) to stop dating a trans man they are no
			longer attracted to, despite the probable presence of a vagina.

	comment score: 4 | u/None
	The issue, as far as I see, is how far our understanding of biology
	has come meaning we don't need to think in terms of willies and
	butterflies anymore when we think about gender. The biology is more
	about how your body is programmed. Gender dysphoria for example,
	might involve you having a brain that is literally expecting a
	'female' body, stretching and worrying for one. But for biological
	reasons, you don't have one. In my opinion it's unacceptable to have
	evidence of this complexity and then pretend it doesn't mean
	anything. If we're lucky we will reach a state where we won't give a
	shit at all what is in someone's pants. (Happy to be tweaked on this
	position, which is partly why I'm sharing it here.)

		comment score: 1 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 6 | u/None
			I believe it can be assessed with brain scans, yes. I have a friend
			who looked into this properly in her late 40s and found treatment
			to deal with transitioning from 'male' would be covered on the UK's
			National Health Service for this reason. She's now in the middle of
			all that. I have been very shocked to be out with her and, for
			instance, when she corrects use of her old, masculine, name, she
			gets a pat on the cheek and something said like "you'll always be
			John to me" from an old boss! This feels very aggressive and
			violent to me, robbing my friend of everything she is going through
			that is fucking difficult!

				comment score: 1 | u/None
				[removed]

					comment score: 4 | u/None
					I haven't thought about this a lot, but if it is not giving Jack
					a lot of trouble and he's happy how he is I struggle to imagine
					what the problem would be with him continuing to identify as a
					man. For my friend the problem manifest as genuine discomfort,
					psychologically and physiologically. Especially, if I remember
					right (some of this was a few years ago), around the time of the
					menopause. I feel like you'd be unlikely to get that scan unless
					you were having problems, or unless you were a volunteer in a
					study. For people perturbed by this new world of open discussion
					of transgenderism, what I really want to know is where they see
					the harm being. Like, the harm in society of acknowledging the
					complexity of another person's lived existence. Long story short
					if you are curious then I think you can discuss it with people
					affected. Then in good faith accept what they are saying.

						comment score: -5 | u/None
						[removed]

							comment score: 5 | u/None
							I'm very consistent! I apply the gender people tell me applies
							to them. I don't feel the need to have a checklist to run
							against someone so I can make my own conclusions about them
							without discussing it with them. I would say it's not really
							your prerogative to disagree with them. You start a sentence
							with "the harm comes" but I don't actually see the harm defined
							after that group of words. There is never any harm from
							listening to someone explain themselves and accepting it.
							Edited for sense

								comment score: -3 | u/None
								[removed]

									comment score: 4 | u/None
									I think you're here with some fixed views and aren't looking
									to change. I am beginning to see your question thread as
									disingenuous. I edited out the albino point after like 50
									seconds because I thought it was contentious and I'm actually
									not very keen on *ifs*. I agree skin colour is not the only
									determiner of race, and a penis is not the only determiner of
									gender (it likely isn't even one). I wouldn't even say,
									because I'm not sure, that a brain scan is the only way of
									determining gender. You are looking to apply rigid rules to
									an area that science suggests has few. I suspect your
									interactions with others will be impoverished because of
									this, but of course that's none of my business. Enjoy the
									ever-more compassionate future! Except I suspect you
									won't....

										comment score: 0 | u/None
										[removed]

		comment score: 5 | u/None
		Tbh nah, I was here to put my position to poor lost OP in the hope
		that my opinion, among others, will help him to make up his mind on
		this subject.

			comment score: 0 | u/None
			[removed]

				comment score: 4 | u/None
				~~Ha ha where's the insult, sorry?~~ Edit -- Wait sorry I don't
				care. Let's drop this plz. Leaves you free to trot out your
				talking points with someone else.

					comment score: -1 | u/None
					[removed]

						comment score: 6 | u/MizDiana
						> I was seriously looking for an honest discussion with people
						where both of us can express our own sincere views. Bullshit. If
						that were true, you'd have read the research that has been
						presented to you on this subject. Multiple times.

							comment score: -2 | u/None
							[removed]

								comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
								I also gave you the one-word summary ("yes"). That was,
								apparently, also too complicated for you. I have serious
								concerns about your mental health.

									comment score: -2 | u/None
									[removed]

										comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
										> Is it possible to identify someone as trans simply by
										looking at their brain? Please learn to use the "parent"
										link.

							comment score: 4 | u/None
							I'd like to further add that in the story above I mentioned
							socially aggressive acts against my friend; such acts do her a
							great deal of psychological harm.  You appear more concerned
							with addressing imagined or, being too generous, potential
							harms of adopting less rigid notions of gender as a society.
							This could lead you do to a great deal of harm to someone
							directly while maintaining your principle. Would it be unfair
							to say you don't really care about the psychological harm you
							might do to a trans person because of your principle on
							bathroom double standards?

							comment score: 3 | u/IntergalacticFig
							> The harm comes from ignoring reality to make people feel
							better about themselves. It comes with generating double
							standards when it comes to things like which shower rooms trans
							people should use, who trans women get to compete against in
							sports, etc. I don't see how letting someone define their own
							identity is "ignoring reality" in a harmful way. It seems like
							you ultimately subscribe to an essentialist view of gender:
							There is some objective, definable, measurable, external
							indicator if someone is "man" or "woman". You are looking for
							that metric to determine "does this person belong in the
							women's locker room?"  There isn't a double-standard. The
							standard is: Women are allowed in the women's locker room. If
							someone identifies as a woman, they belong there, whether they
							have a penis or a vagina. If someone identifies as a man, they
							belong in the men's locker room, whether they have a penis or a
							vagina.  Is it possible that some men may pay lipservice to the
							idea of "i'm a woman" to gain access to women's spaces, while
							not sincerely believing they are a woman? sure, probably. There
							are always people out there who bend society's rules to benefit
							themselves. But there are a lot of social conventions that
							break down when you consider corner cases. We don't create
							social conventions to be ironclad absolutes, but general guides
							of behavior. When people go against those behavior norms, they
							carry their own social consequences.  That is, if a man said
							"I'm a woman" and went to women's changing spaces and made
							women uncomfortable, they could complain about him, or ask him
							to leave, or confront him.  If a woman made other women
							uncomfortable, likewise, they could confront her, or complain
							to management and ask them to deal with the situation.  The
							harm done by saying "transwomen aren't women unless they pass X
							test" i much higher than the harm done by assuming that if
							someone identifies as a woman, she is doing so in good faith.

			comment score: 2 | u/MizDiana
			> Is it possible to identify someone as trans simply by looking at
			their brain? Whether via an autopsy or via some kind of brain scan?
			Yes. Again. I've linked you the research with the autopsy slides
			multiple times before. Bao & Swaab (2010).

				comment score: 1 | u/bluecheesebeauty
				How though? I know there are subtle differences between the
				average womens brain and the average mens brain, but I heard those
				were overblown. And you never could identify a male or female
				based on brain. You could maybe only state wheter it is slightly
				more feminine or masculine.    It seems to me that dragging brain
				scans into this is just a way to make the body and the materials
				the most important thing again, instead of listening to what
				people tell you about their experiences.    Like what happens if a
				trans man has a more feminine brain? Is he then denied to be a
				man?

					comment score: 5 | u/MizDiana
					Well if you don't want to review the research I've cited, here's
					the simplified version: https://www.the-
					scientist.com/features/are-the-brains-of-transgender-people-
					different-from-those-of-cisgender-people-30027 > How though? I
					know there are subtle differences between the average womens
					brain and the average mens brain, but I heard those were
					overblown. And you never could identify a male or female based on
					brain. You are confusing two different things: the overall brain
					responsible for almost all thought we have, and a few sex-
					specific (and tiny) regions. For the overall brain you are
					correct. For the few sex-specific (and tiny regions) you are
					wrong. The research is pretty clear on this. It's not
					speculation. Most areas of the brain are not sex-specific & also
					change over the life time. A few small areas are sex-specific &
					do not change over a life time. > Like what happens if a trans
					man has a more feminine brain? Is he then denied to be a man? As
					far as I know, the research has been done via autopsy, so none of
					it is relevant to a trans person in their lifetime. >  instead of
					listening to what people tell you about their experiences For
					those of us trans people who are alive today (I am a trans
					woman), the best (though not entirely reliable) way to know
					someone's biology is to ask them how they feel - it is evident
					through the impact on their lives. And, later (when they are
					dead), if you slice open their brain & put certain small segments
					under a microscope.

						comment score: 1 | u/None
						Oh I see, I have mis-remembered about my friend having a brain
						scan then? Thank you for the research reference above, I haven't
						read any academic papers on this.  I appreciate your insight and
						am sure you're right the best thing to do is just ask how
						somebody feels... I kind of feel like we're going to be living
						in a completely different world, unrecognisable, when this can
						stop being said....

	comment score: 2 | u/redzin
	1) it's "trans woman" not "transwoman". Trans is short for
	transgender which is an adjective. The trans prefix is applied to the
	word "gender", not "woman", which would be othering and incorrect. 2)
	I believe attraction is based on presentation, personality and sexual
	compatibility. I think a lot of the resentment of trans women in
	particular is a complete misunderstanding of what a trans woman is,
	biologically, socially, sexually and ontologically speaking. I'm
	convinced that anyone who is attracted to women (as a group) are also
	attracted to trans women (as a group), and denying this is only
	possible if you don't understand what a trans women is, or if you are
	severely and unhealthily repressing your own sexuality.

	comment score: 2 | u/bravehonest
	as another commenter said - that’s not what TERFs are doing having a
	penis doesn’t automatically make you a threat.  to think that just
	because a trans woman has a different body than you makes her unsafe
	to dress around is ridiculous.  that said, you don’t have to dress
	around anybody you don’t want to.  but there’s a difference between
	that and excluding people from necessary facilities. and you don’t
	have to have sex with anybody you don’t want to.  if you have a
	genital preference - fine.  just don’t call trans women men or be
	transphobic.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 9 comments | 2019-11-16 | https://redd.it/dxh3bq
POST TITLE: Why is there prejudice against youth pregancies in supposedly liberal "you can do whatever you want" societies?
[deleted]

	comment score: 14 | u/Elle890
	So it's worth pointing out that I don't think this shaming is as
	universal in "liberal societies" (whatever that is supposed to refer
	to? I'm unclear) as you seem to think. Cultural norms around
	children/marriage/pregnancy vary a lot, not only between countries
	but also within them. In the U.S. for instance, both New York and
	Chicago are both very liberal cities, but they have markedly
	different economies, geography, costs of living, histories, religious
	makeup, racial and ethnic demographics, etc. and as such you would
	expect a lot of cultural norms to be different.  The other big
	elephant in the room is race and class and the way they intersect. In
	general, lower-income people (who in the US are in general more
	likely to be black or Hispanic) are more likely to have children
	younger. This means that the stigma around teen pregnancy (or to a
	lesser extent having a baby before you are established in your
	career), is associated with being lower class.  In reality, of
	course, this is not because there is something wrong with low-income
	people, but because low-income people tend to have less sex education
	and less access to reliable reproductive healthcare, including the
	more expensive but more reliable means of contraception. But classism
	is a bitch and doesn't really care about logic.  As you kind of hint
	at in your ask, this prejudice tends to disproportionately affect
	women because sexism is also a bitch like that. But in my experience,
	it's rooted mostly in classism.  (That said, teen pregnancy
	specifically tends to lead to worse economic and educational outcomes
	for girls and for their kids. Girls who get pregnant and decide they
	want to have the baby should absolutely be supported and shouldn't be
	shamed, but the way you seem to frame young motherhood, including
	teen motherhood as empowering is...maybe something you should re-
	examine? I hope I'm getting the wrong impression there. Teen
	motherhood is really tough.)

	comment score: 7 | u/tigalicious
	>anyone under 25 who is pregnant or with-child must be a dirty whore
	and a single mum and living off state welfare, etc... Those are
	conservative talking points. I'm not sure they are really things you
	can lay at the feet of "liberal society". >I get that lots of women
	are forced into being baby carriers by culture and by religion, but
	this is not true if you live in liberal societies Eh, plenty of
	"liberal societies" still have a lot of work to do in terms of
	expanding reproductive rights and making meaningful cultural changes.
	>should not have her with-child status held against her any more than
	a child bride in a third world country should have her lack of formal
	education held against her.  To be clear, I agree with you. But also,
	there's a distinction to be made between criticizing the systems
	which result in so many uneducated women, and criticizing uneducated
	women themselves. Similarly, liberal people may be trying to
	criticize the lingering societal systems which, for instance, tell
	women that reproduction is all they're good for.  That said, I agree
	that there's a weird cultural trap in which women are criticized for
	having kids early, having kids late, or not having kids at all. It's
	ridiculous.

	comment score: 3 | u/PuzzlesAndTea
	For the cultural stigma of it, see the other person’s post because
	they’re absolutely right on all of that. Personally, I don’t see teen
	or young pregnancies as good for many reasons (particularly concern
	for welfare of the mother and child) as I don’t feel making such
	high-consequence decisions is smart to do when your brain hasn’t even
	fully developed yet. (If it was not a choice on the mother’s part
	that’s totally different.) But, I would never say that to someone’s
	face, because I understand that thats my personal opinion and I don’t
	control others choices, regardless of wether or not I view them as
	stupid decisions. And because teen and young mothers face enough as
	is that I don’t think it would be helpful to anyone to add my
	disapproval to the list.  Anyhow, I don’t think “liberal” societies
	are really as “liberal” as you are thinking. Even the most liberal
	area I know is not free from the stigmas of other places, and
	besides, no society or microcosm thereof will realistically be
	homogenous in opinion, right? I also don’t think that liberals really
	advocate for “you can do whatever you want”. To me, it tends to be
	more “you can do whatever you want as long as it doesn’t hurt anyone
	nor infringe on anyone else’s right to do whatever they want”. I
	think that many people who would otherwise be part of the “do
	whatever you want” crowd might see teen or young motherhood as
	possibly harmful to the baby- after all you are creating and taking
	responsibility for a life. Young parents are understandably
	unknowledgeable about life and have barely just stopped being kids
	themselves- they are often completely unprepared to have a child and
	the child suffers for that. I am not saying this is always, or that
	its indisputable, but it is my guess as to why a lot of “liberals”
	aren’t looking to endorse parenthood before you have even had the
	chance to be an adult for any meaningful amount of time. Although I
	would consider the “shame” or stigma to be mostly around 20 and under
	mothers. I can’t say I’ve ever seen a 25 year old chastised for being
	pregnant based solely on age- I’m sure it has happened though. I hope
	this helps you see what their argument is.

	comment score: 2 | u/NHFNNC
	Why have you felt the need to come here spouting lies of conservative
	rhetoric calling it 'liberal society', while also ignoring any sense
	of nuance?

		comment score: -1 | u/None
		[deleted]

			comment score: 2 | u/NHFNNC
			Are you sure the people criticizing them are liberals and not
			conservatives?  No place is just liberal or just conservative. And
			if so, are they criticizing the person or the social pressures that
			push people to make their 'choices'?

	comment score: 2 | u/desitjant
	"Liberal societies" is really broad... Are we talking Western
	societies, western europe, North America? Because asserting that all
	of those areas share the same view on the subject is just ludicrous.

	comment score: 2 | u/MizDiana
	Liberal societies are about freedom & making people's lives better.
	Most teen pregnancies don't make people's lives better. And we
	liberals want that teen (and current or future children) to have as
	good a life as possible. Therefore we praise action we think will
	improve people's lives & caution against action we think will make
	people's lives worse.

		comment score: -1 | u/None
		[deleted]

			comment score: 3 | u/MizDiana
			> Don't think that shaming teens who are alreadt pregnant does much
			to caution them against being pregnant. Yes, I agree. That's why
			feminists don't do that. > Provide better sex education, promote
			STEM and tertiary education to younf girls.  Yes, I agree. That's
			why feminists promote that.

	comment score: 2 | u/Zasmeyatsya
	So I don't know if feminists are the main people responsible for the
	stigma and severe around this: >anyone under 25 who is pregnant or
	with-child must be a dirty whore and a single mum and living off
	state welfare, etc... Feminists on a whole seem to be pro welfare and
	destigmatization of women, even young women, being sexually active as
	well as supportive of single mothers.  Yes, they often oppose teen
	pregnancy and most advocate waiting until a bit older to have kids,
	because having a kid very young tends to cripple women's career
	prospects and can make them more dependent on iffy partners to heñp
	support themselves and their kids, but feminists still aren't behind
	the vitriol here.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/VirginPrideWorldWide | 34 comments | 2019-08-30 | https://redd.it/cxo1xb
POST TITLE: Can cold approaching women in public be really considered sexist if the same men who participate in such behavior would like to be cold approached?
Let's look at the definition of sexism
**1:** prejudice or discrimination based on sex*especially* **:** discrimination against women **2:** behavior, conditions, or attitudes that foster stereotypes of social roles based on sex.
Let's say Tom likes to cold approach women in public and he thinks that's a good behaviour because he would appreciate being cold approached, can Tom be considered sexist? He's not treating women unfairly, instead he's using the same standards for women and himself - a man. I'm making this example because a lot of women, even in this sub, claim that cold approaching is sexist because it annoys people yet they forget that a lot of men who do this would apppreciate being cold approached by random women, they just treat women like they - men - want to be treated. Tom likes to have sex with as many women as possible and doesn't have high standards since he has a very high libido so he would also like to be approached by a lot of women everywhere, yes I'm depicting the typical PUA.
Let's say Tom is bisexual and goes to a place where most men are gay, Tom begins to cold approach men just like he does with women. I'm making this example because I think that men like Tom would do the same even with men if they were gay, as a matter of fact gay men are much more direct and sexual when it comes to approaching other men from my experience and everyone can see the same trend in gay culture. I don't think it's a coincidence that [gay men are the most promiscuous demographics, while straight people are average and lesbian womenare the least promiscuous demographics](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/sex-murder-and-the-meaning-life/201006/homosexuality-queer-problem).
I'm making this post for another reason too, I think that the typical dating advice "treat women like normal human beings" that feminists often give to men doesn't work since many men would like to be cold approached and they definitely think of themselves as human beings. I know that women fear men because they can be dangerous for various reasons like strenght and criminal propensity (men are over-represented in every type of crime) and I think that explaining this gender difference is more helpful than just saying "treat women equally" or other variants that put importance on the equality of treatment. Explaining women's issues with safety to men would be more helpful in deterring men from cold approaching women and from my experience is the best argument to convince my male friends and acquaintances from participating in PUA's behavious.
I also think that there are gender differences in sexuality that explain why men and women don't agree on cold approaching, I've explained them [here](https://np.reddit.com/r/AskFeminists/comments/colxzb/can_the_sexual_objectification_of_women_be_a/) but basically I argue that men are more visual, this means that men are more likely to be aroused by random women while women just notice men without necessarily having a strong sexual response so they are unlikely to see cold approaching favourably. This is not the point that I want to make with this post so you can ignore this last paragraph.

	comment score: 15 | u/CaseyRC
	you recognise that perhaps there are gender differences in feelings
	on being cold approached and that men like it and women don't but the
	argue its therefore not sexist to cold approach a woman because men
	like it? do you even know what you're trying to argue?  If women are
	constantly staating that they/we don't like being cold approached,
	and men decide 'fuck that, I like it so they must' then yes, you're
	discriminating against women's decisions and preferences for what
	happens to them

		comment score: 6 | u/KaijuKi
		He brings up a valid point though: The most commonly given answer to
		the question "How do women want to be treated in this or that
		situation?" is, of course, "just treat them like a human being".
		Unfortunately, this doesnt work when the person asking/doing the
		treating genuinely uses it in this scenario - or quite a lot other
		scenarios, in fact. A MAJOR problem here is that to the person
		giving the advice, most often a feminist on these boards, it seems
		absolutely obvious what "a human being" wants to be treated like -
		pretty much how THEY would want to be treated.  Treat her like a
		human being, treat her like any other man, treat everyone the same -
		these pieces of advice are very often leading to disaster.  You ever
		heard about the dickpic/vaginapic thing? A woman (think it was a
		feminist? not sure) sent unsolicited vagina pics to men, just like
		it supposedly happens the other way around with dick pics, to show
		how bad that is. But a lot of the guys were thrilled or entertained,
		and the reaction was simply nowhere near the one she thought it
		would cause. Perfect example where the same behaviour in the same
		situation goes completely wrong just by switching genders.

			comment score: 4 | u/Not_Fully_Awake
			[Article about the unsolicited vagina
			pictures.](https://metro.co.uk/2015/11/21/this-is-what-happened-
			when-a-woman-sent-men-unsolicited-vagina-pics-on-a-dating-
			app-5517405/amp/)

				comment score: 3 | u/None
				Wow that's not what I expected their reactions would be. I wonder
				why guys are more open to it.

					comment score: 5 | u/LaserFace778
					What would their reaction be to dick pics?

						comment score: 3 | u/None
						If they're not gay probably confusion or disgust.

							comment score: 1 | u/Not_Fully_Awake
							I wonder if gay men would react positively.

								comment score: 4 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
								From what' I've read online on  gay spaces gay men exchange
								dick pictures a lot. A lot of times when I post some pictures
								of me online some random  gay men will ask for dick pictures
								and nudes,  women never do that even though there are many
								more straight women than gay men around. I don't know how gay
								men would react to unsolicited dick pictures though.

					comment score: 4 | u/SexWomble
					Dick pics have a big role in the gay scene.  Gay guys see them
					very differently to women.  Dick pics are an incredibly overt
					sexual approach, which far more men are open to than women more
					generally.  (If men had their way heterosexual Grindr would be a
					thing) That said, I have heard dick pic senders (who are willing
					to fess up) admit that the reason they send them is because some
					small minority of women are into them and that despite pissing
					off most women, it’s an effective way of finding women who are up
					for casual sex.  It’s essentially an unethical filtering
					approach.  I’m not sure how true this is, I have no personal
					experience!

					comment score: 2 | u/XenonNade
					Cause that shits hot ngl. Even if the woman is "ugly", it's still
					flattering to know at least one person finds you attractive,
					rather than zero.

			comment score: 2 | u/SubjectsNotObjects
			It's a great example of The Golden Rule going terribly wrong. As
			you say, many of the things that seem to piss women off about men
			(e.g. dick pics) are just men "treating people how they want to be
			treated". Go on to Grindr, you'll see there's nothing sexist about
			dick-pics: men send them to other men all the time, it's treated as
			more important than the face-pic by most users. This is what
			happens when you start pretending men and women are the same. It
			would actually be much better if men and women were taught about
			the differences: there would be far fewer dick pics flying around!

		comment score: 6 | u/recentwillows348
		Is everyone going to ignore the fact that **it's fine to cold
		approach women** (unless they're at work or have headphones in or
		very closed bodylanguage) and if they react negatively or ignore you
		just stop and drop it?  If they react positively you engage in a
		conversation or whatever. this behavior is absolutely fine.

			comment score: 9 | u/CaseyRC
			its the follow through on that that's the problem. so very many men
			don't then 'drop it'. they continue or worse, get aggressive. the
			approach is onlly half the issue. also, where does 'i'd like
			someone to do xyz so I can do it them so it's fine' line end? if a
			guy thinks 'I'd love a girl to walk over adn grab my dick so it's
			fine if I go over and grab her crotch' do you think that's fine?
			what's the line? who decides? each individual guy? because that''s
			how it'll be taken. if it's declared that 'its not sexist if I'd
			like someone to do it to me' is all good, then each guy (and girl)
			can decide that what THEY like is fine to push onto somoene else.

				comment score: 0 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
				I think that being too insistent and threatening has to do with
				sexism, these kind of men don't take women seriously and wouldn't
				do the same with men they're attracted to because they'd fear the
				other man's reaction, even in gay spaces. We see this issue even
				in other contexts, women's words are not taken seriously even in
				work environments.

					comment score: 1 | u/Jz_Inc
					They are taken seriously when she accuses a man of harassment for
					having the audacity to approach without looking like Brad Pitt.
					That’s an extreme case obviously, but it’s a thing. We need to
					stop pretending like reactions to approaches are not very
					different based solely on looks and not how socially inept or
					aggressive the approach is. It’s a thing. It’s real. Women are
					always more okay with the initial interaction when it’s an
					attractive man. That’s just a fact. Women themselves say this.
					How else do we explain that men are routinely called “creepy”
					before the woman even knows anything about him, but attractive
					men are hardly if ever describe as “creepy”. It’s LOOKISM plain
					and simple.

			comment score: 1 | u/Jz_Inc
			Are you a woman?

		comment score: 1 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
		A lot of men don't think that women don't like it and ignore gender
		differences in sexuality and criminal propensity, a lot of feminists
		also think  there aren't gender differences in sexuality and we
		should treat both genders equally to really defeat sexism. I
		expliticly said that we should tell men that women don't like it, on
		the other hand saying "treat women like human beings" doesn't work
		for the same reasons you have explained (gender differences).

			comment score: 8 | u/LaserFace778
			No one says there aren’t ANY gender differences. Just that the
			differences are related to socialization more than anything else.
			And the cold approach itself is not the problem. The problem is not
			taking no for an answer or being offensive. Anyone would be annoyed
			by a persistent person that won’t go away or is straight up
			insulting.

				comment score: -3 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
				 >No one says there aren’t ANY gender differences. Just that the
				differences are related to socialization more than anything else.
				Many give the advice that we should treat women equally and think
				that doing otherwise reinforces such differences instead. Focusing
				on gender differences, whether they're social or biological, is
				more helpful, in my opinion, when it comes to helping men
				understand cold approaching and dating women in general.  I agree
				with you. >And the cold approach itself is not the problem. The
				problem is not taking no for an answer or being offensive. Anyone
				would be annoyed by a persistent person that won’t go away or is
				straight up insulting. I completely agree with this but this is
				still controversial among feminists, a lot feminists don't like
				the very idea of cold approaching while there are others that
				agree with you.

	comment score: 12 | u/caprice2019
	Slightly off topic here, but can we address this whole 80 percent of
	women like 20 percent of the male . You mentioned this particular
	"wholy Grail" experiment in your previous post. Why is that everyone
	conviently forgets that the sample size only included 27 Women. And
	for some reason you exclude the part where it also says that 80
	percent of the men only want to date 20 percent of the women. Men
	messaged/ liked YOUNG woman way our of their league. In summary, 80
	percent of the women thought 20 percent of the men were hot, BUT 80
	percent of the men only wanted to date 20 percent of the women. So
	yes men, you are just as shallow and shitty as the woman on these
	sites.

		comment score: 1 | u/Jz_Inc
		Funny that when this argument is made in reverse (women being told
		they’re just as shallow as the men) it’s called sexist and
		misogynist, despite the obvious logic that if men and women are both
		shitty it doesn’t matter who in being compared to who when both
		sides possesses the same toxic qualities. In other words, it is
		acceptable to tell men they are shitty and shallow, but telling
		women they are shitty and shallow is “misogyny”.

		comment score: -1 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
		Yes and no, it did only  show that the percentage of men's messages
		skews  more towards attractive people ( on average 17% more
		attractive than them) while women's messages are less extreme in
		their patterns (only 10% more attractive men than them). Below
		average and average women were still getting a lot of messages since
		men send many more messages to everyone. We have data from Hinge and
		Tinder that draw from even larger pools. [Tinder Experiments II:
		Guys, unless you are really hot you are probably better off not
		wasting your time on Tinder — a quantitative socio-economic
		study](https://medium.com/@worstonlinedater/tinder-experiments-ii-
		guys-unless-you-are-really-hot-you-are-probably-better-off-not-
		wasting-your-2ddf370a6e9a) >the average female “likes” 12% of men on
		Tinder. This doesn't mean though that most males will get “liked”
		back by 12% of all the women they “like” on Tinder. This would only
		be the case if “likes” were equally distributed. In reality, the
		bottom 80% of men are fighting over the bottom 22% of women and the
		top 78% of women are fighting over the top 20% of men. \[..\] The
		United States currently has one of the higher Gini coefficients
		(most income inequality) of all of the world’s biggest economies at
		a value of 0.41. The Tinder Gini coefficient is even higher at 0.58.
		This may not seem like a big difference but it is actually huge.
		Figure 3 compares the income Gini coefficient distribution for 162
		nations and adds the Tinder economy to the list. The United States
		Gini coefficient is higher than 62% of the world’s countries. The
		Tinder economy has a higher Gini coefficient than 95.1% of the
		countries in the world. The only countries that have a higher Gini
		coefficient than Tinder are Angola, Haiti, Botswana, Namibia,
		Comoros, South Africa, Equatorial Guinea, and Seychelles [What's The
		Biggest Challenge Men Face On Dating Apps?: A Q&A With Aviv
		Goldgeier, Junior Growth Engineer](https://hingeirl.com/hinge-
		reports/whats-the-biggest-challenge-men-face-on-dating-apps-a-qa-
		with-aviv-goldgeier-junior-growth-engineer/) >The biggest problem
		men face on dating apps - the Brad Pitts of the world take the
		lion’s share of the likes from an already like-deficient sex. Every
		nation in the world has a currency, but that currency is not equally
		distributed amongst the citizens of every country. These economic
		inequalities are described using what is called the Gini index. In
		our context, the closer the Gini index is to 0, the more equally
		likes are distributed across all of our users; a higher Gini index
		rating means more likes are being concentrated into fewer
		recipients. It turns out that, as it pertains to incoming likes,
		straight females on Hinge show a Gini index of 0.376, and for
		straight males it’s 0.542. On a list of 149 countries’ Gini indices
		provided by the CIA World Factbook, this would place the female
		dating economy as 75th most unequal (average — think Western Europe)
		and the male dating economy as the 8th most unequal (kleptocracy,
		apartheid, perpetual civil war — think South Africa). Gay dating
		apps don't show this trend since almost everyone, including average
		and below average men, gets a chance.  I was getting 40 matches a
		day on gay Bumble while I get about 4 matches a month with women who
		don't even write to me (only women can initiate conversations on
		Bumble), I got 100 matches with women in one day while using photos
		of an attractive man

	comment score: 3 | u/GrumpyRPGReviews
	Yes. Because it is not about the opinion or feelings about the person
	doing the approaching. It is entirely about the person being
	approached.

		comment score: -1 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
		A lot of men don't think that women don't like it and ignore gender
		differences in sexuality and criminal propensity, a lot of feminists
		also think  there aren't gender differences in sexuality and we
		should treat both genders equally to really defeat sexism. I
		expliticly said that we should tell men that women don't like it, on
		the other hand saying "treat women like human beings" doesn't work
		for the same reasons you have explained (gender differences). Tom's
		not treating women unfairly or using  different standards for them
		than those he's using for men, you're proposing to apply different
		standards for women instead which is sexist in nature. Otherwise you
		have to admit that the genders are different and the social rules
		that regulate the behavior of both genders are different and unfair
		in nature. this is controversial among feminists and some will agree
		with you while others won't.

			comment score: 3 | u/GrumpyRPGReviews
			I am not calling for a gender difference. I am, however, calling
			for an understanding of individuals. As much as is possible with
			strangers at any rate. Know the circumstances, observe the body
			language, and so on. Assume nothing before you do this, and never
			assume any rights or privileges.  If, for example, they are not
			making eye contact or exhibiting closed body language - leave them
			alone. This is true for men and women.

				comment score: 2 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
				You first said that cold approaching is sexist, now you're saying
				it's ok if it's done correctly.

					comment score: 2 | u/GrumpyRPGReviews
					The default assumption should be it is unwelcome. There are a few
					exceptions, such as a special singles night at a bar or
					something. Otherwise, leave men and women alone.

						comment score: 1 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
						"Leave men alone" A lot of men would like to be cold approached
						and we're not entitled to decide what they should and should not
						like, most men wouldn't definitely mind it. You're denying that
						there are clear gender differences on this issue which is why I
						made this post.  This is one of those issues where the typical
						approach "treat others as human beings" and  typical definition
						of sexism  don't work well, there are gender differences and we
						should take them into consideration.

							comment score: 1 | u/SubjectsNotObjects
							Exactly. The only way to overcome the inherent differences
							between men and women, according to the feminist, is to treat
							men like women and assume that 'a non toxic man' will think and
							feel like a women. The take home message seems to be: "men
							would be nice and reasonable, just like us women, were it not
							for society messing them up." Even the basic assumption "women
							don't like to be cold approached" is making a huge
							generalisation about women, not treating them like individuals
							at all. If a man thinks this way it's "sexist".  Men must be
							reprogrammed not to cold approach, but women's dislike for
							being cold approached is fixed and unchangeable. Men must be
							reprogrammed for women, but it's wrong for patriarchal systems
							to reprogram women for men. Hmmmm...

								comment score: 1 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
								This topic is controversial among feminists, they have
								different opinions on the topic and that's why I brought it
								up. Some take gender differences into consideration while
								other don't.

									comment score: 2 | u/SubjectsNotObjects
									Whilst others take them into consideration when it suits
									their agenda and disregard them when it's convenient. I would
									die for women's rights, but men and women aren't the same,
									and pretending they are is both dishonest and incredibly
									dangerous: we are creating a society incompatible with human
									nature - and there's a risk that we're going to make it even
									more alienating for one sex than the other. Seems to me that
									this whole shitshow is based on repressing men and male
									instinctive tendencies to suit the "house, garden, children,
									monogamy" fantasies that women tend to be prone to, men have
									been worked to fucking death for women for centuries: they
									have the fucking gaul to pretend these are male fantasies and
									that they're the victims of a patriarchy.

	comment score: 3 | u/Johnsmitish
	Didn't... didn't you already ask this question like two days ago?

		comment score: 3 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide (OP)
		It was removed, the mod said to repost it after making some
		adjustements.

	comment score: 1 | u/Jz_Inc
	“Prejudice or discrimination based on sex *especially* discrimination
	against women.” That’s an interesting definition. Source?

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/Billie-Joe-Legstrong | 63 comments | 2019-08-18 | https://redd.it/crxxki
POST TITLE: Who is a feminist that non-feminists should know about that isn’t associated with equality being a zero sum game.
I am not a feminist so the people I hear from don’t usually have the best history with 3rd wave feminism.
I know the point of feminism is to fix prejudice so it’s hard to be positive about it but is there anyone you think of when you hear “feminist that doesn’t see equality as a zero sum game”.

	comment score: 11 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
	I genuinely can’t think of any feminists who do see equality as a
	zero sum game. Can you give some examples?

		comment score: -3 | u/Billie-Joe-Legstrong (OP)
		People similar to Julia Beck who believe men should not have the
		right to be transgender.

			comment score: 9 | u/Lindaero
			She's a terf then not a feminist.

				comment score: 6 | u/SexWomble
				I’ve often wondered about this.  Isn’t that a bit of a no true
				Scotsman?  After all, I imagine lots of feminists from the past
				were not dissimilar to TERFs in various ways.  Who gets to be the
				arbiter of who is and who isn’t?   Is intersectionality now a
				prerequisite to use the label?

					comment score: 10 | u/SashaBanks2020
					I don’t consider it a No True Scotsman situation. I just don’t
					think think TERFs pass the litmus test to be feminists, because
					yes, intersectionality is now a prerequisite. It’s the basis for
					modern feminism. Feminists of the past get some leeway for being
					a product of their time. Nowadays, there’s no excuse for not
					understanding that trans women are women, anymore than not
					understanding black women are women or poor women are women.

						comment score: 1 | u/SexWomble
						Fair enough, this does make sense.  It does at least explain how
						you can say that TERFs aren’t feminists while at the same time
						accepting that various historical feminists still were. You’re
						basically saying that movements can grow and change and that
						once acceptable ways of thinking can be deemed too far outside
						the accepted view to pass.

							comment score: 5 | u/SashaBanks2020
							Exactly. I hope my grandkids think I’m a terrible bigot some
							day :)

								comment score: 2 | u/TyphoonOne
								Why would you want that? Should we not try to work towards a
								standard which will be robust for future generations, and hold
								ourselves to that standard?

									comment score: 4 | u/SashaBanks2020
									I’m kidding, but my point is that the movement should
									continue to progress and I hope that is progresses to the
									point that as inclusive as I am, I’m not nearly inclusive
									enough by future standards.  It’s a good thing that we see
									suffragettes as homophobic and transphobic in the same way we
									Thomas Jefferson as racist. The world has improved that much.

										comment score: 1 | u/ItachiFanboy
										I know how you mean that, but I dont know if a society like
										that is desirable tbh. I mean, if people 100 years from now
										would say you are a bigot/not inclusive enough, what would
										it look like? People getting locked up for saying "wow thats
										crazy"?  Movies being banned because a woman or a minority
										is being hit in it? etc.

		comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
		Imagine how many minds would blown if you told people a hundred
		years ago that the n-word would one day be uncommon.  Society
		progresses. It’s a good thing. And there’s no use in speculating
		because you’re falling for the slippery slope fallacy.

			comment score: 1 | u/ItachiFanboy
			Yeah but Id argue progression stops (or should stop) at some point.
			Would you want to live in a world where the examples above applied?
			Art, entertainment, free speech, so many things would be hampered,
			I wouldnt want to live in a place like that.

				comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
				1) You’re just imagining that those things are going to happen.
				There’s no reason to believe that someone’s going to be locked up
				because they said “that’s crazy.” [Slipper Slope
				Fallacy](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slippery_slope)  2) To
				anyone from the past who couldn’t bare to live in the present, I
				say fuck them. The present is for us. Not them. A hundred years
				from now, I’ll be dead, and society will be for a whole different
				group of people. They shouldn’t give a fuck about what I want at
				that point. 3) progress stops when we have the perfect society. We
				didn’t have it a hundred ears ago, we don’t have it now, and we
				probably won’t have it in 2119.

					comment score: 1 | u/ItachiFanboy
					>There’s no reason to believe that someone’s going to be locked
					up because they said “that’s crazy."      Actually, there was at
					least one university that paid for an "inclusive language
					compaign", and among the banned words/phrases were "crazy",
					"insane", "I want to die", etc. ([see the beginning of this
					video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HwF9SFaKy6U)) Thats reason
					enough to worry for me.        >progress stops when we have the
					perfect society.      True, but I cant see how the examples I
					gave would have a positive impact on humanity in any way, really.
					Like, its logical that maybe we shouldnt enslave other
					races/treat them like animals. But a movie being banned because a
					women gets violated in it? Not so much.

						comment score: 1 | u/theHelperdroid
						Helperdroid and its creator love you, here's some people that
						can help:
						https://gitlab.com/0xnaka/thehelperdroid/raw/master/helplist.txt
						[source](https://gitlab.com/0xnaka/thehelperdroid/) | [contact](
						https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=cancerous_176)

						comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
						You think that’s logical because you live in this particular
						time period in your particular place. Through out most of the
						world over the course of all of human history, not enslaving
						people was not logical. You’ve accepted the way things are just
						because you didn’t live during that time, or aren’t in that
						culture now.  And dude, again, slippery slope fallacy. A college
						is trying to get people to stop saying some micro-aggressions,
						and you take it as this is going to lead to people being jailed?
						There’s no reason to make that jump. Just like there’s no reason
						to think a movie would get banned for not having any women.  I
						also can’t see how those examples would have a positive affect
						on humanity, but that’s because they’re stupid. It’s like if
						conservatives cut a government regulation, and I said “oh great,
						next thing you know, they’re going to dismantle the government,
						and it’s going to be anarchy, and we’re going to live in a Mad
						Max Type dystopia!”

							comment score: 1 | u/ItachiFanboy
							>You think that’s logical because you live in this particular
							time period in your particular place. Through out most of the
							world over the course of all of human history, not enslaving
							people was not logical. You’ve accepted the way things are just
							because you didn’t live during that time, or aren’t in that
							culture now.     Thats true, but I doubt morality will evolve
							further. We view every human as human of equal worth now,
							doesnt get much better than that.        >A college is trying
							to get people to stop saying some micro-aggressions, and you
							take it as this is going to lead to people being jailed?
							There’s no reason to make that jump.       Why not? I can
							definitely see "inclusive language" laws happening. Maybe
							people wont be jailed, but they might get a fine or some other
							punishment. Slippery slope arguments dont have to be fallacious
							"if the slope is real" according to your link :D      > Just
							like there’s no reason to think a movie would get banned for
							not having any women.       Oh, if there was a movie without
							any women even nowadays, Im sure that movie would get BLASTED
							and, maybe not banned, but certainly boycotted and hated.

								comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
								> Thats true, but I doubt morality will evolve further.  Oh,
								the hubris... >We view every human as human of equal worth
								now, doesnt get much better than that ... and the naivety.
								Like, you really think all of human society views every other
								human as equal? Even trans people? Even criminals? Even asylum
								seekers?  Dude, I can’t convince you that you’re just making
								up overly PC dystopias. Like, what do you want me to say?
								“Let’s not help underprivileged people because maybe it’ll
								lead to banning movies and jailing people for micro-
								aggressions?”  But do think you saying “maybe not banned” and
								“people won’t get jailed” is you passively acknowledging
								you’re talking out your ass.  Consider this my final response.

									comment score: 1 | u/ItachiFanboy
									>... and the naivety. Like, you really think all of human
									society views every other human as equal? Even trans people?
									Even criminals? Even asylum seekers?       I didnt say
									society does that, but our general moral system does. Except
									criminals obviously.       >But do think you saying “maybe
									not banned” and “people won’t get jailed” is you passively
									acknowledging you’re talking out your ass.      No? All Im
									saying is that people might get punished for using words like
									"crazy" in the future, which is a valid concern. And Im
									pretty sure you know movies without women wont be accepted
									anymore even today.     >Consider this my final response.
									Alright then Ill consider this little "debate" won :D

										comment score: 1 | u/TyphoonOne
										>as inclusive as I am, I’m not nearly inclusive enough by
										future standards. So shouldn't you be more inclusive? If
										there are possible standards of inclusion which could become
										mainstream in the future, why not try to live up to those?

		comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
		I feel like you’re overthinking this. As progressive as the early
		suffragettes were, they couldn’t even imagine how inclusive we are
		now. Ideally, there will be positive strides made that I can’t even
		imagine, despite my best efforts.

			comment score: 1 | u/TyphoonOne
			> they couldn’t even imagine how inclusive we are now. Why? Like,
			what actually makes it impossible for them to understand our modern
			philosophical framework? If I travelled back in time, I would be
			perfectly capable of explaining my views to others at the time.

						comment score: 1 | u/None
						I don’t think you are right to say that terfs can’t call
						themselves feminists because now you’re being exclusionary. Back
						in the day I was told I couldn’t be a feminist because I still
						slept with men. Remember the phrase “radical lesbian feminist”
						that conservative politicians used? That was the time. I say let
						feminism be a big tent. The other day I was told I couldn’t be a
						feminist because I’m white and middle class. Don’t be
						exclusionary!

							comment score: 4 | u/SashaBanks2020
							They can call themselves whatever they want. I just don’t
							respect their brand of feminism. I have my own personal litmus
							test that they don’t pass. Bill Cosby might call himself a
							feminist, but he isn’t one in my book, and I don’t think anyone
							should say “well feminism is a big tent. Don’t be
							exclusionary!” You seem to be falling into [the paradox of tole
							rance.](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance)
							>Unlimited tolerance must lead to the disappearance of
							tolerance. If we extend unlimited tolerance even to those who
							are intolerant, if we are not prepared to defend a tolerant
							society against the onslaught of the intolerant, then the
							tolerant will be destroyed, and tolerance with them. I’m not
							going to tolerate the intolerant.

								comment score: 2 | u/None
								You don’t have to endorse their views but saying that only
								people who think exactly as you do can be feminists is
								intolerant. I was told back 50 years ago that I wasn’t a
								feminist because I had sex with men. It was a total separatist
								movement.

									comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
									Nope. If someone said they were feminist but they excluded
									black women, I wouldn’t consider them feminist. If they said
									they excluded gay women, I wouldn’t consider them feminist.
									And if they say they exclude trans-women, they can call
									themselves whatever they want, but as far as I’m concerned,
									they’re not feminists. I’m not expecting anybody to think
									exactly as I do. I’m saying you can’t be a feminist who
									discriminated against a certain group of women just because
									they’re the “wrong type” of women. If you accept TERFs,
									you’re passively saying feminism accepts transphobia. Even if
									you don’t believe in it, you’re saying it’s acceptable. I say
									the same thing about conservatives and racism. If you’re not
									denouncing it, you’re accepting it. So the question is: do I
									exclude TERFs or trans women? Trans women aren’t going to
									want to be part of a movement that accepts the hatred of
									them, so it really is one or the other. I choose Trans people
									same as I would choose black women instead of racists. I’m
									sorry for your bad experiences, but feminism has to stand
									for, and against, something.

										comment score: 3 | u/None
										It wasn’t a bad experience, though thank you for saying
										that. I thought at the time tough I’m a feminist! But I
										don’t believe in totally rejecting any viewpoint as long as
										they are standing up for women’s rights.

		comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
		But trans women are women, so if someone is against trans people’s
		rights, they’re *standing against* women’s rights. That’s what it
		comes down to. They don’t see trans women as women, and I do. As far
		as I’m concerned, being trans isn’t any different than being black
		or gay. It’s just one more aspect of some women’s total identity.
		So if you’re excluding trans people, you’re excluding women.

						comment score: 1 | u/None
						[removed]

							comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
							So says the TERF

								comment score: 1 | u/None
								[removed]

									comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
									See original comment. I don’t consider TERFs feminist. You’re
									just a TERF

										comment score: 1 | u/None
										[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
		I know what it means, dude. Like I said, they don’t pass my litmus
		test. They can call themselves whatever they want, I just don’t
		respect their brand of feminism. I call them TERFs because they
		don’t like it. I’m not going to call them “gender critical” because
		it’s like calling a racist a “race realist.”

										comment score: 1 | u/BenLewisWaddington
										Imagine comparing a social construct to race. Okay I guess I
										have to follow religion too, people believe in it. I would
										be exclusionary to not accept their belief systems as my
										own.

		comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
		https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/without
		-prejudice/201612/race-social-construction%3famp

			comment score: 1 | u/BenLewisWaddington
			You compared a biological man to a black woman, that is not the
			same thing. No one was questioning that a black woman is a woman,
			how they are remotely the same thing to you is interesting. Race is
			observable, a so-called gender identity is not. Sex is also
			observable. Black women are not a social construct.

				comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
				Look man, I have no interest in changing my perspective. If you
				do, respond to this comment. As far as I’m concerned, trans women
				identify as,  look like, act like, and are treated as women, so
				they’re women.  What you think means absolutely nothing to me
				because you’re just a TERF to me.

					comment score: 1 | u/None
					[removed]

						comment score: 1 | u/SashaBanks2020
						It’s through that set of stereotypes that trans women are
						communicating who they are and how they’d like to be treated.
						Imagine if they didn’t try to present as a woman. They would
						just be treated like a man because that’s what they look like.
						The options are get shit on for acting out the “stereotypes” or
						get shit on for not putting in any effort to look like women.

					comment score: 4 | u/nokanjaijo
					>Isn’t that a bit of a no true Scotsman? No. If the Scotsman from
					the no true Scotsman fallacy were kicked out of the country for
					doing what he did, it wouldn't be a fallacy. It would be true
					that no true scotsman does that because doing that gets you
					kicked out of the group of scotsmen. I am on quite a few feminist
					boards and none will tolerate TERFs.  https://www.reddit.com/r/Fe
					minism/comments/crf1r0/does_this_group_support_transwomen/ex5ekrt
					/ >Who gets to be the arbiter of who is and who isn’t? It's an
					ideology and the majority of that ideology generally do. Sure, I
					could tell you that I'ma meat eating vegetarian, but the fact
					that I keep getting kicked out of every vegetarian group I try to
					join for posting steak recipes should say something about how
					accepted I am by the group I claim to represent.

					comment score: -3 | u/TKalV
					I don’t really get what you are saying, but you can’t be a
					feminist and TERF. It’s one or the other, they are mutually
					exclusive

						comment score: 5 | u/SexWomble
						I mean that TERFs define themselves as feminists, so it comes
						down to who actually has rights over the name?  It basically
						comes down to who you talk to doesn’t it? > It’s one or the
						other, they are mutually exclusive Is that 100% true?  I can see
						that there are areas of huge disagreement but it doesn’t seem
						like mutual exclusion to me.  There are some TERFs who were once
						accepted as mainstream feminists.  There are others who say
						things which plenty of feminists agree with.  Take Julie Bindels
						writings about the Nordic model of sex worker legislation for
						example.  There are non TERFs that would agree with her stance
						on that.  Especially trans inclusionary radical feminists I’d
						have thought.

							comment score: 3 | u/TKalV
							Yeah, and China define itself as a popular regime.  Yes it is
							100% that you can’t be a feminist and a TERF, because when you
							are a TERF you goal is to exclude people (including women) from
							feminism.

								comment score: 1 | u/SexWomble
								> Yeah, and China define itself as a popular regime. Fair
								point. > Yes it is 100% that you can’t be a feminist and a
								TERF, because when you are a TERF you goal is to exclude
								people (including women) from feminism. Well: 1.  There’s been
								numerous feminists that were exclusionary in various ways
								before right?  Separatist feminism for example?  Are we saying
								that various historical feminists should no longer be regarded
								as such?  Or merely that it was ok back then but not now? 2.
								I’m not sure if TERFs would actually admit that they were
								exclusionary.  They’d presumably point to the fact that there
								are trans people (and men) who are TERFs and that provided
								such people recognise the TERFs seemingly overwhelming desire
								to have sex segregated spaces, they’d be welcome to join their
								movement.  They seem especially interested in trans
								medicalists, who’s beliefs intersect somewhat with their own.
								It’s clear that men or trans people in that category would
								have to be a bit masochistic to join, but then not identifying
								as a feminist myself, I sometimes feel that way about some
								people within mainstream feminism too.  From my point of view,
								there isn’t quite the bright line between the two that you
								suggest, except over the issue of whether sex or gender is the
								primary way in which people should be categorised/protected.

									comment score: 1 | u/TKalV
									« I’m not sure if TERFs would actually admit that they were
									exclusionary »  TERF litterally means Trans-Exclusionary
									Radical Feminism. What the fuck are you talking about. Edit :
									I well tell you here one last time. You can’t be a TERF and a
									Feminist. TERF’s goal is to strip trans people from their
									rights, and deny that they are valid, and deserve
									recognition. And you can’t be a feminist if you think. You
									don’t need to go further.

										comment score: 2 | u/SexWomble
										That isn’t their term for it though is it.  It’s actually a
										term which is applied to them by other feminists.  Which
										actually begs the question as to why the word “feminist” is
										in there at all if other feminists regard them as non-
										feminist.

		comment score: 1 | u/TKalV
		I don’t speak with you anymore. You can’t be a feminist if you are a
		TERF, I already explained you why. No feminist will disagree, and
		it’s not because TERF call themselves feminist that it gives them an
		once of legitimacy.

			comment score: 2 | u/SexWomble
			K, no worries.  Thanks for the convo.

										comment score: 2 | u/SexWomble
										> TERF’s goal is to strip trans people from their rights,
										and deny that they are valid Hmm, that’s what they do but
										they’re not doing it for its own sake (I don’t think).  It’s
										noticeable that they regard MtF trans people very
										differently to FtM.  TERFs fundamentally hate men and are
										far more afraid of them than most women.   They’re so
										paranoid about men that they fear that trans people are
										simply men wanting to muscle in on their movement.  That’s
										what it’s all about under the covers as far as I can see.
										It’s no accident that TERFism and SWERFism go together.
										It’s the underlying attitude to men which links them.

		comment score: 1 | u/TKalV
		Oh I am sorry, so they are stripping away women’s right, but it’s
		okay because they are afraid ? Lol. Thanks.

			comment score: 1 | u/SexWomble
			I’ve no idea how you got that from my last answer  to be honest.  I
			didn’t say anything close to that.

						comment score: 1 | u/None
						I don’t think you are right about that.

							comment score: 0 | u/TKalV
							I don’t think your view on the subject is relevant since you
							don’t think that Trans women can be feminist.

								comment score: 1 | u/None
								No. I asked a question. I think trans women can be feminists.
								I am curious about their experience and how it feels to step
								down in power and privilege from being men.

									comment score: 0 | u/TKalV
									Sure... so you were actually arguing about the fact that they
									can be feminist, and now you’re also saying that TERF can be
									feminist...  Almost feel like you are a TERF. You can’t be a
									feminist and a TERF a the same time...

										comment score: 0 | u/None
										I’m not a terf. But I think they can be feminists. You might
										be too young to have experienced any of the previous
										iterations of feminism personally but for a while there was
										a total separatist movement. I was told that I couldn’t be a
										feminist at that point.

		comment score: 1 | u/TKalV
		And today, if you are a TERF you can’t be a feminist a the same
		time, because you are trying to strip away rights and validation
		from people. From women. There is no debate beyond that.

			comment score: 1 | u/None
			No I disagree. Just like I disagreed with those feminists who said
			you have to be a lesbian in order to be a feminist. We need to
			fight the patriarchy and this op who says he’s not a feminist, not
			each other.

				comment score: 1 | u/TKalV
				I don’t care if you disagree, it’s not the same thing at all, stop
				comparing those two.  If you’re so right why don’t you ask on this
				sub if TERF can be considered feminists ?  No one is fighting each
				other, TERF (which aren’t feminist) are fighting trans people, and
				therefore feminist (mostly trans) are fighting TERF.

	comment score: 4 | u/Johnsmitish
	Feminism isn't a zero sum game though. Feminism isn't about taking
	rights away from people, it's about making sure that everyone has the
	rights and privileges afforded to them as human beings. Just because
	women make gains in one field, that doesn't mean men are forced to
	take losses in said field, etc.

	comment score: 1 | u/avocado-nightmare
	So another user asked a comparable question after you, which I
	responded too. Looking through this thread it doesn't look like
	anyone has really directly addressed your question, so I am going to
	quote my other response here. I would be particularly interested in
	the answer to the question, which feminist or feminist work advocates
	for the advancement of women's rights or status in society by taking
	those same things away from men?   >\[...\] I've been a feminist and
	academic for a long time... personally never heard this term used and
	never thought of feminism ("third-wave" or otherwise) as having this
	kind of agenda.   >   >I saw you got a pretty thorough answer re: the
	economy and physical "stuff" as it relates to the progression of
	feminism, but the thing I think you're missing here is just an
	understanding that most things in the world are not actually finite--
	you mentioned things like public school budgets as examples. Those
	are largely arbitrarily set-- most budgets and resources in our
	society don't have actual hard, set limitations-- we create shortages
	because of how we (or people in power) choose to prioritize. If
	you're writing from an American perspective, than it should be pretty
	clear that we have the money to invest in public schools, we just
	spend it on the military instead. Effectively, we make choices about
	what to prioritize in the majority of cases as it relates to resource
	allotment.   >   >This includes jobs and education as it relates to
	men. For much of history, society has prioritized investing in,
	educating, and employing men. One thing I disliked about
	[u/plotthick](https://www.reddit.com/u/plotthick/)'s response is they
	suggest that women "didn't work". This isn't exactly true.
	Historically, it's only really upper-class women that didn't "work".
	Additionally, throughout history women's work has contributed
	substantially to humanity and the economy; it just hasn't been valued
	monetarily the same way as men's labor. More precisely women's work
	hasn't been commodified the same way that men's labor has (though
	definitely women's work is commodified-- see housekeeping and
	nannying). This is why feminists will sometimes humorously write
	house wife job descriptions and suggest salaries... because women
	work A LOT, they just aren't paid for that labor. While all the Great
	Men were out doing Great Things, who do you think was raising their
	children, running their households, preparing their meals, dealing
	with the hundreds of things that must be done every day?   >   >Now,
	as to the "zero sum" question. I personally think you are asking this
	out of some sense of anxiety (which is a pretty common one re:
	feminism) that if women gain MORE (rights, jobs, whatever) then it
	must mean that men will have less. This is essentially one of the
	core fears that people (usually men) have of feminism... you are
	expressing an anxiety about losing a privileged status in society--
	not an actual criticism of a stated goal of feminism (can you tell me
	which feminist or feminist work has made this claim that there is a
	zero-sum goal or agenda?). Although feminism does want to balance the
	current power imbalance, this doesn't have to require that men
	actually give up jobs or wages, and feminists as a group don't really
	advocate for either of those outcomes.   >   >If feminism had a zero-
	sum agenda, then we would have at least started to see some of those
	negative outcomes for men by now. Which is how we know that in the
	case of social and legal rights... this idea of "zero sum" isn't
	true. In most cases (economic, labor, etc), it just isn't true. Our
	economy is premised on an idea of continual growth, and since the
	industrial revolution has expanded substantially and pretty much
	continually. If women were to stop working the economy would cease to
	function (see: [womens
	strikes](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2005/oct/18/gender.uk)).
	These kinds of gendered strikes have been impactful for a long time
	(see earlier in this post re: women's labor throughout history).   >
	>TL:DR: feminism isn't a zero-sum game and when women gain rights and
	status in society, men don't lose them. There are not a finite amount
	of human rights available.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/sansseraph7 | 23 comments | 2019-01-07 | https://redd.it/adjuuy
POST TITLE: Men are 97% of combat fatalities. Men pay 97% of Alimony. Men make 94% of work suicides. Men make up 93% of work fatalities. Men are 165% more likely to be convicted than women. Men lose custody in 84% of divorces. 80% of all suicides are men. 77% of homicide victims are men.
[removed]

	comment score: 10 | u/Helicase21
	Can we get a better question than "what is your response"?

		comment score: 6 | u/KaliTheCat
		I think we can all read the subtext here.

		comment score: 0 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 3 | u/KaliTheCat
			wow gosh you're right feminism is cancelled

	comment score: 7 | u/KaliTheCat
	Is this actually a question or are you just ranting? Given your post
	history, I'm inclined to say it's the latter.

		comment score: 1 | u/Red-Orange-Pie
		He, or she actually who knows, mostly presented statistics and study
		results, but there was in fact a question in the text, quote: "What
		is your response to these facts that say the world is sexist against
		men, not women?"

			comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
			Yeah, but they weren't *really* asking, because they don't care
			what the response is. This ain't my first rodeo.

				comment score: 1 | u/Red-Orange-Pie
				Well, certainly it was very crowded with statements for a
				question.  As to the intentions though, I believe they wanted to
				hear it, the answer, just felt insecure about potentially getting
				dismissed immediately with a denial of the issues' existence. Thus
				the list of sources... But I agree the question should have been
				put first and the sources be listed later, for those who'd like to
				challenge the claim - one way to do it.

					comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
					You are much too charitable. There's a reason I look at people's
					post history before I spend time engaging with them, and someone
					who posts constantly about "triggering the libs" and "femoids"
					and shit is not worth it. They do not want to hear an answer
					unless the answer is "holy shit, you're right! feminism is a
					waste of time and men have always had it worse! female oppression
					is fake! thank you for helping me see the light!" Sometimes I'll
					engage with an obvious troll for the benefit of people who might
					be lurking, but in this case this was just way too much of a
					"GOTCHA, FEMINISTS!!1!!!1!" for me to bother.

		comment score: -3 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 4 | u/KaliTheCat
			Boring.

				comment score: 1 | u/Red-Orange-Pie
				I wonder, would you dismiss a woman hitting the street and loudly,
				angrily demanding human rights... by saying to her "boring"? She
				has every right to be angry, she's been denied rights like
				abortion, and the fact she's angry doesn't change a thing. And the
				fact she's  repeating her request 1000-th time doesn't matter.
				She's right, that's all that matters.  Same with him. Yes he's
				angry, but he's got every right to be angry.  "Boring"? Wonder how
				would society react if someone made such a remark about women
				fighting for human rights like access to legal and safe
				abortion... "Oh they're angry - so unfeminine - and repeat
				themsevles!" How are you not to repeat yourself if nobody's
				listening?! Luckily times are changing, hopeully:
				https://www.essex.ac.uk/news/2019/01/03/new-measure-for-gender-
				inequality-suggests-many-disadvantages-for-men

					comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
					You can't even see the comment I was responding to.

						comment score: 1 | u/Red-Orange-Pie
						I saw that before it was deleted, I still have it open in
						another tab in fact. They've spoke about posting facts in the
						sub. Though the post deserved to be deleted to be honest, due to
						a needless personal attack included.

							comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
							Yeah, and it was just a shitty insult I've heard 989384 times
							before "lol u dumb feminist can't read feminism is a lie"
							That's what's boring. Not "issues men face."

	comment score: 3 | u/Typical_Humanoid
	I agree that these are problems that we should combat but I don’t
	know what to tell you bro, I’m still a feminist and I fail to see how
	that conflicts with caring about these issues.

	comment score: 5 | u/ptrlix
	What a good-faith question that reminds us that "77% of homicide
	victims are men" without mentioning that the same study also
	concluded that "Although the overall risk of homicide for women was
	substantially lower than that of men, their risk of being killed by a
	spouse or intimate acquaintance was higher...More than twice as many
	women were shot and killed by their husband or intimate acquaintance
	than were murdered by strangers using guns, knives, or any other
	means. " and that "[women] committed only 14.7% of the homicides
	noted during the study interval." Perhaps when you look at the full
	picture, the whole situation could have something to do with the way
	men (and women and others) are socialized, which feminists have been
	critical of since forever.

	comment score: 2 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 2 | u/Stavrogin78
		Right there with you, but you're breaking the rules. (Read 'em,
		they're important).

		comment score: 1 | u/demmian
		All [top level comments](http://i.imgur.com/ovn3hBV.png), in any
		thread, must be given by feminists and must reflect a feminist
		perspective. Please refrain from posting further direct answers here
		- comment removed.

	comment score: 3 | u/queerbees
	This is /r/askfeminists, not /r/tellfeminists. Removed.

		comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
		OP has x-posted this in The Donald, so that should be entertaining.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/supinator1 | 6 comments | 2019-10-31 | https://redd.it/dprxkx
POST TITLE: As gender roles are reduced, would there be a increase in number of female completed suicides?
Men complete suicide 3X more often due to choosing more lethal methods but women attempt it at 3X rate. It may be more acceptable to women to use the more lethal methods since suicide methods would be less gendered so the number of female suicides would go up unless the number of female attempts decrease. Unless mental health services significantly improve, the number of attempts isn't going to go down significantly and women are more likely to be depressed due to estrogenic effects so a gender bias in depression probably will still exist.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4478054/
Edit: article is just to support idea that estrogen changes are related to depression.

	comment score: 8 | u/Brookeofthenorth
	We want mental health services to improve. Less people will commit
	suicide with that goal achieved.

	comment score: 5 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 0 | u/CheesyChips
		This is a really outdated and harmful idea about women doing it ‘for
		attention’ and men doing it because the actually want to kill
		themselves. Your comment does not reflect a feminist position so I
		have removed it.

			comment score: 1 | u/Blork32
			I guess I'd appreciate more explanation on the feminist perspective
			on the issue? It seems to me that women's voices tend to be less
			valued in society and they're less able to pursue the lives they
			want.  Thereby making alternative means of being heard more
			attractive.   Up to and including suicide attempts. I certainly
			didn't mean to provide a non-feminist response, and I definitely do
			want to know what would be a better feminist answer than mine.

		comment score: -1 | u/supinator1 (OP)
		I'm not sure you can say that one group wants to die more than the
		other.  Both groups do it after they feel there isn't any other
		choice, after failure of society to help them.

			comment score: 7 | u/Blork32
			I didn't say that one group "wants to die" more than another, I
			said that we'll see fewer female suicides as they're more able to
			live the lives they want.  Your question was about female suicides,
			not "who wants to die more."

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 1 comments | 2020-04-02 | https://redd.it/ftn20u
POST TITLE: Advice and Reading Material Please
[deleted]

	comment score: 5 | u/garland41
	Some books that I would recommend: * *Feminist Theory: From Margin to
	Center* by bell hooks    * This book covers a wide range and
	functions as an introduction.        * It benefits by giving a clear
	and quotable definition of Feminism: as the Movement to end sexism,
	sexist exploitation, and oppression.       * It critiques some
	earlier feminist thinking and where it went wrong. Mainly the white
	liberal feminism that didn't notice the existence of Women of color
	in the workforce.       * It covers how men are and can also be
	victims to sexist oppression. * *Feminism is for Everybody:
	Passionate Politics* by bell hooks    * Another introductory book by
	hooks.       * This book covers a wider range of topics while the
	previous looked at the feminist movement and how it could benefit
	from starting at the margins of society instead of being centered on
	white women, that a white women feminism is victim to white
	supremacy.       * This book covers such things as Politics,
	Education, Class Struggle, Global Feminism, Reproductive Rights,
	Marriage, Feminist Parenting, Feminist Masculinity, and more       *
	This book and the previous help to show the reader how the perception
	of Feminism was shaped by our patriarchal media system. This is not a
	conspiracy theory; rather, the media was able to choose Feminist
	idols that were visible and easy to tear down as wacky. * *The
	Essential Feminist Reader* by Estelle B. Freedman    * This is a
	collection of works organized chronologically by Freedman       * You
	wanted something that would show the historical presence of women,
	and this book can do that.        * The earliest document in this
	book comes from Christine De Pizan, France, 1405. Although, most of
	its documents come from the 19th and 20th centuries.        * This
	book is not just European and American, it includes sources from
	India, China, Mexico, Zimbabwe and more.       * The entries are all
	rather short, and some are more philosophical and other are more
	literary.        * I have only read selections out of it, so I don't
	know how helpful it would be in specific situations of conflict.
	These are all simple books I'd recommend. One book that I'm not
	recommending because I never see it quoted and I believe it may be
	sort of out of date is *Women's Choices: Philosophical Problems
	Facing Feminism* by Mary Midgley and Judith Hughes. The reason,
	however, why I bring it up is that the authors said something that
	has stuck with me. When they were writing the book, pre-1983, the
	feminist movement, as they saw it, has a strange relation with
	history. As the authors say,  >Many members of the current women's
	movement, including some of its prophets, have recorded that when
	they began their work they thought they were breaking entirely new
	ground. They did not know they had predecessors at all, and were
	often delighted to discover them. (pg. 121) Be delighted to find
	them, and unlike the authors, for they continue in negative manner
	from this, make them common knowledge. And as common knowledge as
	something we can call upon immediately instead of having to search
	for. Hope this helps.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/potatorockstar | 10 comments | 2019-02-04 | https://redd.it/an6ctw
POST TITLE: Should all feminists be MRAs and all MRAs also feminists?
[removed]

	comment score: 6 | u/ADCregg
	Yeah, you’re not a feminist. You’re a baby MGTOW/redpiller. Or a
	fully grown one, depending on how much you’re sugar coating that
	nonsense you wrote.

		comment score: 4 | u/The-Unmentionable
		Glad to see I'm not the only who was like "uhhhhhh"

			comment score: 4 | u/ADCregg
			Lol, no. That dude straight up wants to watch women burn at the
			stake. It’s not even subtle. It’s like a list of MGTOW talking
			points.

		comment score: -1 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 1 | u/ADCregg
			I know you don’t. Shhh.

				comment score: 1 | u/potatorockstar (OP)
				cucks gonna be cucking. we true feminists strive for True Equality
				tm.

	comment score: 5 | u/The-Unmentionable
	Much of this does not read as feminist at all to me.

		comment score: -1 | u/potatorockstar (OP)
		so if it asks for true equality and fairness its not feminism.
		gotcha. well i had my suspicions... .

	comment score: 4 | u/GermanDeath-Reggae
	Ummmmmmmm you know women can already drive, right?

	comment score: 1 | u/potatorockstar (OP)
	When one adresses equality for what it truely is and should be, and
	talks about men having rights, and women having responsibilities
	everyone gets triggered af. Try this to an article about minimising
	unfairness from the side of males. An army of cucks and women jump on
	you. We are still far from equality it seems.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 4 comments | 2019-08-29 | https://redd.it/cxare1
POST TITLE: Why is it considered sexist to cold approach women in public?
[removed]

	comment score: 3 | u/grafted_moom
	Oh shit y'all, he brought the dictionary. Sorry, not trying to be
	snarky but... seriously? You're in a feminism sub and you thought the
	best way to start your post is by copy/pasting the first hit when you
	type in "sexism" on google?  Despite the fact that this is pretty
	clearly a "gotcha, feminists!" ask, I'll try to answer your question.
	Staggering misunderstandings of queer culture aside, it's not sexist
	to approach women in public, make conversation, and introduce
	yourself. The thing is though, most of the time, the way y'all do it
	is super sexist.  Some things to keep in mind when doing this:  Women
	do not owe you their attention. Or even their politeness. If she
	doesnt give it to you, nothing has been deprived from you.  Give her
	an "out." I remember men who have said things like "I don't mean to
	make this too personal, but do you have a boyfriend?" Or "If you have
	somewhere to be, please don't let me keep you"  (not in a passive
	aggressive way) fondly, because they're giving me a chance at a
	graceful exit by acknowledging that I might not want to or be able to
	talk to them.  Learn to read body language. She probably doesn't want
	to talk to you, straight up. Think about how you would feel if you
	were approached by some random dude in public. Learn to excuse
	yourself and duck out after she clearly isnt into it. Treat her like
	a human being. This post kind of makes you seem like you have a chip
	on your shoulder about women who complain about street harassment.
	Not a good look. Have some empathy.  The reality is, though, even if
	you're awesome, many women have just experienced a lot of street
	harrassment, and for a lot of us, the handsomest guy would come up to
	us and be incredibly polite and we would *still* feel a little put
	off/on the spot/uncomfortable. The thing with cold approaching is
	you're almost certainly gonna creep some people out, and almost
	certainly gonna experience rejection, probably not too nicely either.
	I'd stick with trying to build up acquaintanceships with girls you
	meet parties, through friends, ect, and asking them out after yall
	have had some sparks.

		comment score: 0 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide
		Thank you for this reply, it was very clear. >Treat her like a human
		being. This post kind of makes you seem like you have a chip on your
		shoulder about women who complain about street harassment. Not a
		good look. Have some empathy. What? I acknoweldged why women don't
		appreciate cold apporaching because men can be dangerous, where did
		you notice my lack of empathy?

		comment score: 0 | u/VirginPrideWorldWide
		Also, how would you define "sexism"? Where should I look for the
		definition of sexism?

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
		Per the sidebar rules: please put any relevant information in the
		text of your original post. The rule regarding top level comments
		always applies to the authors of threads as well. Comment removed.
		*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please
		[contact the moderators of this
		subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskFeminists) if you have any
		questions or concerns.*

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/nohateihvquestion | 1 comments | 2020-06-06 | https://redd.it/gxmpvy
POST TITLE: Why do so many of us still have (blatantly) wrong beliefs?
[removed]

	comment score: 1 | u/oracular_duck
	Take your disingenuous trolling elsewhere. You are no feminist.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskSocialScience | u/SOMUCHNOPE123 | 8 comments | 2020-03-24 | https://redd.it/foeeda
POST TITLE: Is this user's using data on domestic violence, abuse, and toxic masculinity and internalized misogyny, are correctly or using reliable sources to support their claim.
sources are the links.
https://www.reddit.com/r/WhitePeopleTwitter/comments/fj3n9e/comment/fkl439n
>You are absolutely correct. So let's move past our fixation on physical and sexual violence and take a look at emotional violence and the internalization of gender roles. As I've noted elsewhere, it is curious how when men internalize their assigned gender to the point where it becomes harmful to themselves and those around them, it's "toxic masculinity", but when women internalize their assigned gender to the point where it becomes harmful to themselves and those around them, it's "internalized misogyny". Doubly curious considering that...
>*TORONTO -- The age-old bias that suggests “boys don’t cry” is unconsciously perpetuated by mothers more than fathers, according to new research from the University of Guelph.*
>*The study, published in the Canadian Journal of Behavioral Science, found that moms tend to favour girls expressing emotions of sadness and anger over boys. Fathers, on the other hand, lacked a bias towards emotions of anger and sadness in their children.*
>The researchers say they were surprised by this finding, which is odd because this meta-analysis of several different studies on the topic found the exact same thing, and it was published in 1998.
>Beauty standards specifically are not as widely studied, but eating disorders are, and we find that the attitudes of mothers are better predictors than the attitudes of fathers. At no point in Wasted: A Diary of Anorexia and Bulimia does Marya mention being shamed for her weight by men or wanting to be thin in order to please men the way she describes being shamed for her weight by women and wanting to be thin in order to make other women jealous.
>Oh, and we've also known for decades that men are just as or slightly more likely to be victims of intimate partner violence than women. It's past time for women to step up and stop framing themselves as hapless, agency-less victims of the system.
https://www.reddit.com/r/WhitePeopleTwitter/comments/fj3n9e/comment/fkl79oo
>Most child abusers are women, based on CPS estimates that are primarily concerned with physical and sexual abuse. Female abusers are far more likely to use emotional violence, which is far less likely to be reported, taken seriously, or even perceived as abuse by the victim. I didn't realize my mother was emotionally abusive until I was 26 and had been hospitalized multiple times for symptoms none of the doctors recognized as being consistent with CPTSD and a history of emotional abuse and neglect. Tellingly, I realized it after reading a book that was written by and for female victims of male abusers.
>All of your citations could just as easily be used to argue my perspective, that women are the abusers and aggressors who (re-)create and perpetuate the bullshit gender roles that form the basis of "patriarchy", but they are given a free pass because we "feel a sense of gratitude to the dominant group for their [abusive] actions". After all, they're our mothers. We're supposed to love them unconditionally for everything they did for us and look past their faults and abuses. Our fathers who slaved away at a job they hated for twenty years in order to give us a better life are somehow not owed the same understanding and gratitude.
https://www.reddit.com/r/WhitePeopleTwitter/comments/fj3n9e/comment/fkle73o
>You're backtracking from your original claim that emotional violence is just as or more potent a weapon than physical violence. To the extent that men are more physically violent, I would note that "boys will be boys" - a sentiment I have only ever heard expressed by women - cuts both ways. Boys are allowed (by their predominately female caretakers) to get away with things girls are not allowed to get away with, but they are also expected to fend and stand up for themselves in a way that girls are not. When authority won't help, boys on the playground learn that violence is sometimes the only way to ensure their safety and emotional well-being. That doesn't justify their violence as adults - especially violence in intimate relationships - but that brings us back to the original question of agency in the internalization of gender roles.
>It is also worth pointing out that the overwhelming majority of violence (including and especially war and crime) is economically motivated, and men are expected to provide for themselves in a way that women are not.
https://www.reddit.com/r/WhitePeopleTwitter/comments/fj3n9e/comment/fklefg3
>I lack the expertise to put all this data in context and I have no desire to get into a tit-for-tat "who has more studies" argument so I'll limit myself to claiming that "men are more violent" is very far from the settled, established fact it is often portrayed as.
>*The DHHS data shows that of children abused by one parent between 2001 and 2006, 70.6% were abused by their mothers, whereas only 29.4% were abused by their fathers.*
>*And of children who died at the hands of one parent between 2001 and 2006, 70.8% were killed by their mothers, whereas only 29.2% were killed by their fathers.*
>*Furthermore, contrary to media portrayals that leave the viewer with the impression that only girls are ever harmed, boys constituted fully 60% of child fatalities. (Table 4-3, p. 71, Child Maltreatment 2006, http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb/pubs/cm06/cm06.pdf, reports that 675 boys died in 2006 as compared to 454 girls).*
>http://www.breakingthescience.org/SimplifiedDataFromDHHS.php
>*How is it that our general legal understanding of domestic vio-lence as defined by the male abuse of women is so squarely contra-dicted by the empirical reality? Honestly answering this question re-quires tracing the history of both the theory and practice of domestic violence law. Undertaking such an exploration, one quickly finds that the “discovery” of domestic violence is rooted in the essential feminist tenet that society is controlled by an all-encompassing patriarchal structure.8 This fundamental feminist understanding of domestic violence has far-reaching implications. By dismissing the possibility of female violence, the framework of legal programs and social norms is narrowly shaped to respond only to the male abuse of women. Fe-male batterers cannot be recognized. Male victims cannot be treated. If we are to truly address the phenomenon of domestic violence, the legal response to domestic violence and the biases which underlie it must be challenged.*
>https://ir.law.fsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1595&context=lr
>The social sciences are female-dominated and gender studies and women's studies in particular are 72% and 92% female respectively. I have no data on men's studies because it's usually considered a sub-discipline of women's studies, which is revealing in and of itself. If you really believe that representation matters and that a diversity of perspective is required in order to arrive at the truth, you should take findings that validate patriarchal/feminist assumptions about men with more than just a single grain of salt.
The source they uses.
https://beta.ctvnews.ca/national/sci-tech/2019/11/19/1_4693208.html
https://psycnet.apa.org/record/1997-42746-001
https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Lisa_Lilenfeld/publication/11444200_Personality_perfectionism_and_attitudes_toward_eating_in_parents_of_individuals_with_eating_disorders/links/5a1f0a200f7e9b9d5e026196/Personality-perfectionism-and-attitudes-toward-eating-in-parents-of-individuals-with-eating-disorders.pdf
https://web.csulb.edu/~mfiebert/assault.htm
https://ir.law.fsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1595&context=lr
https://humanparts.medium.com/toxic-femininity-is-a-thing-too-513088c6fcb3
https://gen.medium.com/metoo-will-not-survive-unless-we-recognize-toxic-femininity-6e82704ee616
https://everydayfeminism.com/2014/10/feminism-against-child-abuse/
https://www.domesticshelters.org/articles/identifying-abuse/women-as-the-abusers
https://endhomelessness.org/demographic-data-project-gender-and-individual-homelessness/
http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb/pubs/cm06/cm06.pdf
http://www.breakingthescience.org/SimplifiedDataFromDHHS.php
https://ir.law.fsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1595&context=lr
https://datausa.io/profile/cip/050207/#demographics
https://datausa.io/profile/cip/050207/#demographics

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	I am not going to offer a point to point answer: there is too much to
	unpack, and I am not much into "debunking" rather than sharing
	information and promoting critical thinking. What I will offer are
	some general remarks on the subject matter, and provide some food for
	thought and/or concepts to follow up on. --- First, the whole toxic
	masculinity, internalized misogyny etc. To discuss these concepts,
	make comparisons, seek parallels and so forth, it is necessary to
	understand the conceptualization and useful to understand the context
	in which particular ideas were conceptualized. To begin, I would
	highlight the concept of **masculinities** ***plural***. This is an
	important point stressed by [Raewyn
	Connell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raewyn_Connell), an important
	contributor to research on the social construction of masculinity.
	For illustration, see Connell's own [Masculinities](https://www.ucpre
	ss.edu/book/9780520246980/masculinities), the [Journal of Men &
	Masculinities](https://www.apa.org/pubs/journals/men/), Levant and
	Wong's [The Psychology of Men and
	Masculinities](https://www.apa.org/pubs/books/4318144), Pascoe and
	Bridges's [Exploring
	Masculinities](https://global.oup.com/ushe/product/exploring-
	masculinities-9780199315673), and so forth. In regard to definitions,
	the [APA](https://www.apa.org/news/apa/2019/boys-men-look) writes:
	>**Masculinity ideology is a set of descriptive, prescriptive, and
	proscriptive of cognitions about boys and men** (Levant & Richmond,
	2007; Pleck, Sonenstein, & Ku, 1994). Although there are differences
	in masculinity ideologies, **there is a particular constellation  of
	standards that have held sway over large segments of the population,
	including: anti-femininity, achievement, eschewal of the appearance
	of weakness, and adventure, risk, and violence.** These have been
	**collectively referred to as traditional masculinity ideology**
	(Levant & Richmond, 2007). Additionally, **acknowledging the
	plurality of and social constructionist perspective of masculinity,
	the term** ***masculinities*** **is being used with increasing
	frequency** (Wong & Wester, 2016) Now, take a statement such as:
	>[...] it is curious how when men internalize their assigned gender
	to the point where it becomes harmful to themselves and those around
	them, it's "toxic masculinity" It is not uncommon for people to
	perceive commentary about a certain kind of masculinity as concerning
	either men in general, or masculinity in general. Different
	masculinity ideologies refer to different sets of ideas and
	expectations about men. Thinking in terms of "degree" (e.g. "degree
	of internalization") will lead one astray. Also, *masculinities* are
	describing something else than internalization, i.e. see definitions
	of masculinity or masculinity ideology. --- Moving onto specific
	forms of masculinity. What is "toxic masculinity"? As far as I am
	aware, it is tends to be more of a pop scientific term than an
	academic term. It is often associated to hegemonic masculinity, but
	it is *not* hegemonic masculinity. The term itself is often traced to
	the [mythopoetic men's
	movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mythopoetic_men%27s_movement)
	(see this [Atlantic
	article](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2019/02/toxic-
	masculinity-history/583411/) or this [Longreads
	article](https://longreads.com/2019/01/25/origins-of-toxic-
	masculinity/)). An often cited academic use of the term is
	[Kupers](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15732090)'s 2005 paper
	about mental health treatment in prison: >**Toxic masculinity is the
	constellation of socially regressive male traits that serve to foster
	domination, the devaluation of women, homophobia, and wanton
	violence.** Toxic masculinity also includes a strong measure of the
	male proclivities that lead to resistance in psychotherapy (Brooks &
	Good, 2001; Meth & Pasick, 1990). He conceptualizes toxic masculinity
	as encompassing the "toxic" aspects of hegemonic masculinity (i.e.
	not its entirety): >The term *toxic masculinity* is useful in
	discussions about gender and forms of masculinity because it
	**delineates those aspects of hegemonic masculinity that are socially
	destructive, such as misogyny, homophobia, greed, and violent
	domination; and those that are culturally accepted and valued**
	(Kupers, 2001). After all, there is nothing especially toxic in a
	man’s pride in his ability to win at sports, to maintain solidarity
	with a friend, to succeed at work, or to provide for his family.
	**These positive pursuits are aspects of hegemonic masculinity, too,
	but they are hardly toxic. The subordinated masculinities that
	Connell contrasts with the hegemonic, and the profeminist alternative
	masculinities celebrated in the profeminist and antihomophobic men’s
	movement, are examples of nontoxic aspects of expressed
	masculinities** (Kupers, 1993) >There is the caring man, there is the
	man who is in touch with his “feminine” attributes, and there is a
	father’s dedication to his children. These are nontoxic aspects of
	masculinities. **Toxic masculinity is constructed of those aspects of
	hegemonic masculinity that foster domination of others and are, thus,
	socially destructive.** Banally, masculinity is not toxic, it is
	toxic masculinity (i.e. a particular *subset* of a *form of*
	masculinity) which is toxic. --- That said, in the controversial APA
	guidelines, it does not speak of *toxic* masculinity. It comments on
	traditional masculinity, and discusses the notion of
	[hegemony](https://dictionary.apa.org/hegemony): >**In Western
	culture, the dominant ideal of masculinity has moved** from an upper-
	class aristocratic image **to a more rugged and self-sufficient
	ideal** (Kimmel, 2012). Thus, **traditional masculinity ideology can
	be viewed as the dominant (referred to as “hegemonic”) form of
	masculinity that strongly influences what members of a culture take
	to be normative.** The other books I cited earlier also do not use
	the term "toxic masculinity". Rather, authors such as [Connell and Me
	sserschmidt](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/089124320527863
	9) refer to toxic *practices* which may be associated with hegemonic
	masculinity, a set which you might decide is appropriate to classify
	like Kupers did. >**Because the concept of hegemonic masculinity is
	based on practice that permits men’s collective dominance over women
	to continue, it is not surprising that in some contexts, hegemonic
	masculinity actually does refer to men’s engaging in toxic
	practices**—including physical violence—that stabilize gender
	dominance in a particular setting. **However, violence and other
	noxious practices are not always the defining characteristics, since
	hegemony has numerous configurations.** Indeed, as Wetherell and
	Edley (1999) ironically observe, one of the most effective ways of
	“being a man” in certain local contexts may be to demonstrate one’s
	distance from a regional hegemonic masculinity. --- Following the
	above, one can begin to intuit that these concepts are not of the
	sort which can be straightforwardly dichotomized. Take hegemonic
	masculinity, per Pascoe and Bridges: >**Most simply, hegemonic
	masculinity refers to the most culturally exalted forms of
	masculinity-configurations that justify dominance and inequality.**
	Whereas we tend to think of masculine icons as deserving to be held
	up, conceptualizing them as "hegemonic" offers a different
	explanation. As Bridges writes, "we do not exalt hegemonic
	masculinities because they are hegemonic; they are hegemonic because
	we exalt them" (2009: 9 1). Can a critical thinker simply take this
	concept, flip it over, and easily produce hegemonic femininity? Well,
	no. The concept of hegemonic masculinity is rooted in a specific
	framework and analysis about what is considered to be a given
	hierarchy and status quo. Therefore, more careful thought is
	required, as if hegemonic masculinity justifies male dominance, then
	correspondingly what we have is a culture of female *subordination* -
	which should be a familiar concept (it is a core feature of several
	other concepts and theories). For an illustration of this sort of
	rationale, see for example how Pascoe and Bridges describe Connell’s
	theorization: >Although the concept has received far less attention,
	**Connell initially theorized hegemonic masculinity in relation to a
	configuration of femininity she termed "emphasized femininity." As a
	result of the "global domination of women," Connell suggests that a
	"hegemonic femininity" does not exist.** Connell suggests that the
	highest status masculinities, those most culturally exalted, are also
	forms associated with the greatest power. >Yet, she argues that - as
	a result of gender inequality - the relationship works differently
	for femininities. Although she did not define configurations of
	femininity in the way she does for masculinities, **she does suggest
	that the most culturally dominant femininity achieves power and
	status through its connection with hegemonic masculinity. Connell
	defines emphasized femininity as "defined around compliance with . .
	. subordination and . . . oriented to accommodating the interests and
	desires of men" (1987: 183). Thus, for Connell the highest status
	form of masculinity is the least culturally subordinated, but the
	highest status configuration of femininity remains subordinate to
	hegemonic masculinity.** **[Continues below]**

		comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
		Internalized sexism is substantively not a mirror concept of any
		sort of masculinity - it is not the same order of phenomenon;
		**toxic masculinity is not internalized misandry**. I would rather
		comprehend it as a corollary and/or outcome of phenomena such as
		hegemonic masculinity.  The same reflection can be made regarding
		toxic masculinity, if we link it to hegemonic masculinity and as
		representing a set of “toxic practices” stemming from it. To mirror
		this concept to create toxic femininity, we would be led to discuss
		how a set of sociocultural expectations about women can be
		detrimental to women…which again, might sound like a familiar
		concept? (See: what the Feminist movement is about.) I would also
		recommend expanding the horizon by also considering the large amount
		of research on concepts such as benevolent sexism, compensatory
		stereotypes and [Queen Bee syndrome](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskSoc
		ialScience/comments/ffkhd1/women_and_warfare/fkvwu7t/). Do note that
		this is *not meant to argue for excluding or denying the possibility
		to conceptualize* something like hegemonic femininity, toxic
		femininity or whatever. This is meant to add much needed nuance and
		dimension to the discussion. I will acknowledge that there are at
		least some debates on the theorization of femininity, but I would
		suggest a good debate on the topic requires better understanding
		than what is found on the front page of the interwebs. --- In regard
		to assertions such as "the social sciences are female-dominated" and
		about representation, I would invite pushing the critical thinking
		further. For example, if we take a [list of eminent
		psychologists](https://www.apa.org/monitor/julaug02/eminent) or a
		[ranking of sociologists](https://www.isa-sociology.org/en/about-
		isa/history-of-isa/books-of-the-xx-century/ranking-order), **how
		many of the "big names" are women rather than men?** And in regard
		to fields as "gender studies" or feminist approaches to different
		disciplines, **why do these exist and what are their purpose?** For
		example, in many cases it *is* the result of researchers pointing
		out that a lot of research was/is focused on men. For illustration,
		[feminist criminologists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feminist_sch
		ool_of_criminology) have attempted to [expand our understanding of
		**female offending**](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F97
		8-1-349-23901-6_6), not only female victimization. I would also note
		that, for example, the publication of guidelines for practice with
		men and boys does reflect ongoing work on taking care of both men
		*and* women. [See for example this APA page on the nature and logic
		of the guidelines](https://www.apa.org/monitor/2019/01/ce-corner).
		There is a lot more dimension to this whole story, then what is
		found in online discussions and debates. --- Concerning
		socialization, violence and so forth, this comment is both long and
		has already taken a lot of my time, furthermore these topics deserve
		their own threads (and there are several other threads here which
		touch upon different aspects of these subject matters). But most of
		all, the point of my reply is broader and about the fundamental
		starting points for further discussion. That said, I would conclude
		with
		[Connell](http://www.raewynconnell.net/p/masculinities_20.html)'s
		own words: >**To speak of masculinities is to speak about gender
		relations. Masculinities are not equivalent to men; they concern the
		position of men in a gender order.** They can be defined as **the
		patterns of practice by which people (both men and women, though
		predominantly men) engage** that position. >There is abundant
		evidence that **masculinities are multiple, with internal
		complexities and even contradictions**; also that **masculinities
		change in history**, and that **women have a considerable role in
		making them, in interaction with boys and men**.

			comment score: 1 | u/SOMUCHNOPE123 (OP)
			>For illustration, feminist criminologists have attempted to expand
			our understanding of female offending, not only female
			victimization. What you think of this study used for this statement
			from this [>Oh, it’s also an objective fact that women are more
			likely to engage in intimate partner violence than men, and
			feminists play a clear and undeniable role in preventing this from
			being acknowledged or influencing public policy.](https://www.reddi
			t.com/r/LeftWingMaleAdvocates/comments/fpd1wo/incels_feminists_and_
			the_mentality_of_abusers/)
			https://ir.law.fsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1595&context=lr

				comment score: 4 | u/Revue_of_Zero
				Sorry for keeping you waiting. I would first point out that it is
				not a study, but a mix of a review and criticism about feminism in
				the context of the debate concerning gender (a)symmetry in
				intimate partner violence. I can make a general comment on the
				debate, referencing more recent publications about the associated
				controversies. It is undeniable that [there is a lot of
				controversy surrounding the topic and the debate is commonly
				framed as being between feminists who deny gender symmetry, and
				all other researchers who have hundreds of studies supporting
				gender symmetry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domestic_violence_a
				gainst_men#Gender_symmetry). For example, in the sentence you
				quoted, there is also a link towards Martin Fiebert's
				bibliography, who is known for such collections. Once again, I
				would invite anyone interested in this debate to engage critical
				thinking, a healthy dose of skepticism, and to consider that
				perhaps the controversy is more complex than ideologues versus
				anti-ideologues or something along those lines. --- Personally, it
				is rare for me to find it particularly useful or informative to
				frame discussions in terms of "feminists", as if this label meant
				the same thing for everyone. It often involves strawmanning or
				making appeals to "politicization" in order to undermine entire
				lines of research.  To begin, see
				[DeKeseredy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_DeKeseredy)'s
				contribution to a special issue of the Journal of Family Violence
				dedicated to the topic, and to [Murray
				Straus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murray_A._Straus). Both are
				known for research on intimate partner violence, the former being
				a feminist, and the latter being the main developer of the
				[Conflict Tactics
				Scale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conflict_tactics_scale) who
				has strongly denounced the decades of denial of the evidence on
				gender symmetry in partner violence. [DeKeseredy](https://link.spr
				inger.com/article/10.1007/s10896-016-9861-8) asks: **What is
				Feminism?** >Perhaps the above question should be changed to "what
				are feminisms?" because **feminism is not monolithic and there are
				at least 12** ***feminisms*** (Renzetti 2013). However, one would
				not know this if he or she only reads the work of anti-feminist
				scholars in the field (e.g., Dutton 2010).  He subsequently
				argues: >**Often repeated by scholars and activists who assert
				that women are as violent as men in intimate relationships is the
				claim that feminists ignore women’s use of violence. This, too, is
				false.** It is beyond the scope of this article to cite all the
				feminist work on women’s use of violence, but I urge readers to
				examine Boots and Wareham’s (2013) relatively recent review of the
				extant literature. **What, though, makes feminist theoretical and
				empirical work on female violence distinct from that of family
				violence researchers, such as the late Murray Straus, is that it
				moves beyond crude counts of behavior using some variant of the
				Conflict Tactics Scales (CTS). Feminists carefully examine the
				contexts, meanings, and motives of women’s use of violence and pay
				attention to differentiating between offensive and defensive forms
				of violence, a courtesy commonly extended to victims of other
				crimes** [...] >Even so, **feminists do not claim that all forms
				of violence used by women are fighting back or in self-defense.**
				That some women strike some men, sometimes with the intent to
				injure should not be the subject of debate. Every competent survey
				ever done has found battered men, some battered by other men and
				some battered by women, including female partners. So forth. ---
				That established, let's delve into the substance (do not take the
				following as exhaustive, my main goal is to stimulate critical
				thinking and reasonable skepticism). One element for which I
				believe that "both sides" are increasingly agreed upon is that
				there is a fundamental problem of conceptualization and
				definition, i.e. whether everyone is speaking the same language.
				This is also related to methodological issues, such as the use of
				the CTS. Here I would comment on lists of studies such as
				Fiebert's: these may appear very compelling.  However, you would
				have to check each item of these lists to confirm whether each and
				every study allows to respond to the same question, and/or if they
				do so appropriately. Counts are but one element to take into
				consideration. To set the context: in a 2002 review, [Saunders](ht
				tps://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/107780102237964) points out
				several issues which can still be found in more recent critiques;
				>**The critiques of the CTS are very important to consider, given
				that almost all of the studies in major reviews** (e.g., Archer,
				2000; Fiebert, 1998) **use the scales or very similar scales.** A
				possible effect of the sampling differences and screening biases
				noted above is that two distinct types of violence are being
				uncovered, what one team of researchers calls “intimate terrorism”
				and “common couple violence” (Johnson & Ferraro, 2000). >**Another
				problem with most studies is that they neglect to include sexual
				abuse.** Rates of sexual abuse of women by an intimate partner
				were more than 5 times higher than rates of sex- ual abuse of men
				by an intimate partner in a large-scale study of college students
				(Makepeace, 1986), from 2 to 60 times higher in high-school
				samples (Molidor & Tolman, 1998; O’Keefe & Treister, 1998), and 20
				times higher in a random survey of the U.S. population (Tjaden &
				Thoennes, 2000). >**The family conflict studies by Straus and
				Gelles (1990) leave out another major form of violence, that which
				occurs among separated and divorced couples.** Also see
				DeKeseredy's stance on the debate: >**The answer "no" [to whether
				women are as violent as men in intimate relationships] is based in
				part on what was stated previously in this paper: the importance
				of examining the contexts, meanings, and motives of women’s use of
				violence.** For example, much female and male violence is used for
				different reasons, with female violence used mainly in self-
				defense or fighting back and male violence used primarily as a
				means of patriarchal control (DeKeseredy and Schwartz 2013).
				**Unless we know exactly why people use violence, it is misleading
				to draw conclusions about the causes of such behavior based solely
				on crude counts of hits, kicks, slaps and other items listed in
				the CTS.** >**The other reason for "no" is that there is no
				evidence of sexual assault, strangulation, assault during the
				process of separation or divorce, stalking, revenge pornography**
				(also referred to by some as image-based sexual abuse), **and
				homicide being sexually symmetrical. These behaviors are commonly
				part of abused women’s experiences, but are downplayed or ignored
				by those who assert that men and women are equally violent.** ---
				Thus, for example, the CTS is still strongly criticized in regard
				to its use to support "gender symmetry". As
				[Ackerman](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2017-15655-001) briefly
				explains in 2017: >Despite widespread use, **the scale’s validity
				continues to be questioned because several CTS-based findings
				contrast with those based upon alternative data sources** (Hamby,
				2009). **A consistent critique that may explain why CTS findings
				differ from alternative sources has been the scale’s failure to
				account for the context in which purported aggression occurs**
				(DeKeseredy, 1995). Critics suggest that this failure may
				potentially cause the scale to mix events such as self-defense
				(Saunders, 1986), innocent horseplay (Lehrner & Allen, 2014), or
				other be- nign and/or self-protective acts with consequential
				victimization (Kimmel, 2002).  Much criticism of the instrument
				comes from Hamby, one of the co-authors of the CTS2. [She
				discusses the instrument and gender symmetry in this Psychology
				Today blog](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-web-
				violence/201507/could-women-be-violent-men), but I will quote her
				[2014 study of its
				validity](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2014-44482-001): >**The
				extent of gender differences in IPV reporting varies substantially
				depending on the inclusion and exclusion criteria applied**
				(Hamby, 2005, 2009). These are not just statistically significant
				differences; rather, **they communicate markedly different
				impressions about the nature of the social problem of IPV.** The
				**findings here are in line not only with data from other
				nonsurvey methodologies** (e.g., Truman, 2011), **but also with
				many previous self-report surveys of IPV that have not shown
				gender parity** (e.g., Iverson et al., 2013; Tjaden & Thoennes,
				2000; Wolitzky-Taylor et al., 2008). As first noted by Campbell
				and Fiske more than half a century ago (1959), an important
				benchmark of validity is consistency across methodologies in the
				measurement of any phenomenon. Briefly, per the abstract: >>**The
				CTS and similar behavioral checklists are unusual in their
				inattention to false positives. Self-report measures designed to
				minimize false positives produce results consistent with other IPV
				methodologies**; that is, they **do not demonstrate gender
				parity**. Although
				[Winstok](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26223242) - a close
				colleague of Straus - was not convinced by Hamby, he did
				acknowledge the following: >There is complete gender symmetry in
				the CTS’s approach to the measurement of PV: **Both men and women
				are asked about victimization and perpetration of the same violent
				actions in the same manner. Nevertheless, this approach does not
				ensure an unbiased gender measurement. The sample of violent
				actions used by the measurement may itself cause gender bias**
				[...] >It should be emphasized that while fingernail scratching
				[which women might use more] is not included in the behaviors
				sampled by the CTS, hair pulling is [which men are more likely to
				use]. **Addressing behaviors typical of one gender but not the
				other may yield biased rates of violence per gender.**
				**[Continues below]**

					comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
					In her own response, [Hamby](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs
					/10.1177/1524838015596963) reviewed several hypotheses for why
					different methods produce different results, and concluded that
					the best supported hypothesis concerns item wording and content:
					>This brings us to the hypothesis for which **there is a great
					deal of evidence that overly broad wording in the CTS, CADRI,
					Safe Dates scales, and other similar measures is too imprecise.
					Broad wording can create numerous problems from capturing too
					many false positives to creating uncertainty as to whether an
					incident**—such as a pillow fight or a ski accident—**should be
					included and hence perhaps also discourage reporting.** As
					Winstok notes, this is not a new hypothesis, but one that dates
					to the first generation of CTS critiques. This issue was also one
					that we explicitly attempted to address in the CTS2, although
					unfortunately unsuccessfully. In the spirit of reintroducing
					nuance and complexity to a complex topic, and to demonstrate that
					researchers who disagree or agree with a given conclusion are not
					necessarily hive-minds, I would note that Hamby, for example,
					does not consider hypotheses regarding, for example, self-defense
					as driving gender symmetry to be supported: >As I have written
					elsewhere, **many of these early hypotheses were also reasonable
					scientific conjectures but are not supported by existing
					evidence** (Hamby, 2009). **Self-defense, initiation, the context
					of conflict, and numerous other measurement parameters do not
					explain the multimethod divergence.** In any case, the
					aforementioned Ackerman tested the instrument's validity and
					confirms this hypothesis. He **concludes that overreporting is "a
					substantial problem" with CTS measures** and argues that **this
					is at least in part due to how it was built to "increase
					disclosure of sensitive events" (which includes avoiding
					"stigmatizing terminology")**; >**The gendered patterns
					illustrated in this study point to validity problems that will
					not only affect IPV prevalence estimates but also have the
					potential to misinform our understanding of IPV’s etiology**—at
					least in circumstances in which an accurate assessment of gender
					differences in aggression is important. Clearly, **this is
					particularly important in research on matters of gender parity in
					IPV perpetration.** Without additional research, however, it
					would be premature to conclude that prior findings, especially in
					the area of gender parity, based upon CTS analyses are incorrect.
					Rather than invalidating gender parity research based upon the
					CTS, **perhaps the current results suggest that better
					distinctions be made between various forms of aggression that
					have greatly differing consequences (or perhaps no consequences)
					for those involved.** --- On the topic of context and
					interpretation, see for example [Johnson et al.](https://link.spr
					inger.com/article/10.1007/s10896-016-9858-3)'s attempt at
					bridging differences by proposing "a both/and approach": >**We
					posit that researchers’ underestimation of how much context
					matters** [...] >Thus, **it is and it is not**. We know **both
					men and women are perpetrating PV; however, how and why they are
					perpetrating may be for different reasons** (e.g., desire to
					control versus self-defense; Allen et al. 2009; Barnett et al.
					1997; Swan et al. 2008) [...] It is worth noting that [Straus](ht
					tps://www.ncjrs.gov/App/Publications/abstract.aspx?ID=186243)
					himself has also written in the past: >**It is also one of the
					main reasons why I have always insisted that ". . . although
					women may assault their partners at approximately the same rate
					as men, because of the greater physical, financial, and emotional
					injury suffered by women, they are the predominant victims.**
					Consequently, first priority in services for victims and in
					prevention and control must continue to be directed toward
					assaults by husbands" (Straus, 1997) --- Relatedly, there is the
					issue of conceptualization and definition. Let's begin with
					[Dobash and Dobash](https://academic.oup.com/bjc/article-
					abstract/44/3/324/471260) who write in 2004: "**The question of
					who are the most usual victims and perpetrators rests, to a large
					extent, on ‘what counts’ as violence.**" In 2016, [Geffner](https
					://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10896-016-9898-8) argues:
					>**The terminology used in the field of intimate partner violence
					is still inconsistent**, which has contributed to the strong
					feelings on both sides of these issues [...] **People in the
					field have used such terms as violence, abuse, aggression, and
					assault as if they are interchangeable in publications,
					presentations, discussions, legal statutes, and policies.** He
					argues that **we should more clearly distinguish assault and
					violence** ("usually physical and/or sexual acts and behaviors of
					aggression [which] can also be psychological") **from abuse:**
					>Whereas the terms above usually refer to isolated events,
					**abuse generally involves an ongoing pattern that may include
					multiple forms of aggression. Abuse assumes there is a
					relationship between the participants, and also takes into
					account the intent as well as the consequences on the person
					being victimized.** His conclusion therefore: >Thus, from decades
					of research that Murray Straus and many others have conducted,
					**it is clear that both men and women may be aggressive in
					relationships. However, it is also clear that much of the
					aggression in relationships, especially female-to-male
					aggression, does not meet the definition of abuse noted above due
					to the lack of an ongoing pattern of coercive control and the
					intent to dominate and intimidate.** When the above definitions
					are used, **abusers are primarily men. Women are much more likely
					to be the recipients of the most trauma, fear, being controlled,
					and serious injuries in such relationships. Characterizing
					intimate partner abuse as gender symmetrical is simply not
					accurate then.** >**Similarly, denying that women use aggression
					in relationships does not match the research data.** In fact,
					women may use similar forms of aggression as men, cause injury,
					and behave violently, but they would not necessarily be acting
					abusively according to the definition above. Returning to
					DeKeseredy: >Still, **for feminists, relying on simple counts of
					actions divorced from their meaning and ignoring a broad range of
					hurtful behaviors does not mitigate or change the meaning of the
					conclusion that women are overwhelmingly predominant victims of
					adult intimate violence.** This is why I, and many other feminist
					scholars, used gender-specific terms such as "woman abuse,"
					"woman battering," and "violence against women." There is a lot
					more which could be said (for example regarding intimate partner
					*sexual* violence), this is not meant to be exhaustive. I have
					attempted here to provide different voices, and focused on more
					recent developments. Hopefully it is sufficient to make my point,
					and to also encourage you and others not to take statements such
					as the one you quoted and all that follows at face value.

						comment score: 1 | u/SOMUCHNOPE123 (OP)
						Is post that people, like the OP I have been mentioning, don't
						understand the source they uses?

							comment score: 3 | u/Revue_of_Zero
							It depends but what you mean by "understand", and in any case I
							would - in principle - be wary of generalizing too freely
							(because, for example, what might apply to many, may not apply
							to particular individuals which require individual analysis).
							--- If someone uses a source like that article written by Kelly
							or Fiebert's bibliography - and do not dig deeper and consider
							more sources - then to make statements such as the one you
							quoted is not a matter of misunderstanding, although it can be
							a matter of ignorance. I say the former because, for example, I
							do not need to read Kelly's article in detail to see that it is
							strongly critical of "feminism" - to say the least. See its
							layout: >Through an open discussion of domestic abuse, Part I
							of this Article endeavors to expose the fact that domestic
							violence is committed by women [...] **After exploring the
							tendency to deny, defend or minimize the violence of women in
							Part II** and then arguing that female violence must be
							addressed, **I assert in Part III that today’s refusal to react
							is a product of the feminist control over the issue of domestic
							violence.** Female violence presents both a threat to feminist
							theory as well as to the practice of domestic violence law.
							Notwithstanding such concerns, today’s myopic understanding of
							domestic violence has serious implications. Limiting this
							examination to the criminal justice system, **Part IV considers
							how the feminist definition of domestic violence has skewed
							arrest and prosecution philosophies**, resulting primarily in
							having only male batterers criminally pursued. The Part also
							reviews how rehabilitative programs are geared toward treating
							domestic violence as the byproduct of a patriarchal society,
							thereby only producing programs which address male violence.
							**Similarly, the services for domestic violence victims, in
							particular, the availability of shelters, have also been shaped
							by the feminist definition of domestic violence.** In
							conclusion, Part V calls for challenging the existing gendered
							definition of domestic violence and thereby demands changing
							our norms and institutions so that we may honestly work toward
							addressing and eliminating domestic violence. Therefore,
							someone who uses this sources and states that "feminists play a
							clear and undeniable role in preventing this from being
							acknowledged or influencing public policy" have probably
							understood the *message*. Now, it does not mean that I would
							argue that they have understood the *issue*.  Likewise with
							Fiebert's bibliography, which summary states: >This
							bibliography examines 286 scholarly investigations: 221
							empirical studies and 65 reviews and/or analyses, **which
							demonstrate that women are as physically aggressive, or more
							aggressive, than men in their relationships with their spouses
							or male partners.** The aggregate sample size in the reviewed
							studies exceeds 371,600.  Again, no misunderstanding if one
							uses *this* source without reading other contributions pointing
							out that there are substantive and methodological disagreements
							from "the other side" regarding these counts. --- For
							illustration, the reason why my answers typically count
							multiple sources (but not lists of hundreds of papers) and
							direct quotes is to attempt to provide nuanced perspectives
							into complex topics, and to show the authors' actual reasoning
							and messages, rather than asking people to trust me (of course,
							there is always a degree of trust required as I am still a
							human being choosing what to quote).

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskSocialScience | u/ryu289 | 20 comments | 2020-01-25 | https://redd.it/etzn1k
POST TITLE: Are Ferguson's arrest rates fully representative of crime reporting, or are both heavily skewed?
https://donotlink.it/EgXlW
>Because the arrest rate of blacks for offenses that don’t “hinge on police discretion,” like violent crimes, also systematically exceeds their proportion of the population. In other words, so far as we can tell with objective statistics, the plain fact is that the color of crime in Ferguson is black.
There are three elements to this story.
>Tracking how the population changed in Ferguson over a 40 year period
Understanding how white flight effectively forces police to become a source of revenue
>Researching crime rates to see if white police are behaving in a discriminatory manner when it comes to non-“discretional” crimes like murder or robbery.
First, properly to understand crime figures, you have to realize that Ferguson, Missouri is a community devastated by sudden white flight. 
>The city is currently 70 percent black, but this is a very recent development.
>In 1970,Ferguson was 99 percent white  
>In 1980, Ferguson was 85 percent white and 14 black
>In 1990, Ferguson was 73.8 percent white and 25.1 percent black
>In 2000, Ferguson was 44.8 percent white and 52.4 percent black
>By 2010 Ferguson was 29.3 percent white and 67.4 percent black
>Since the Supreme Court declared Restrictive Covenants on property unconstitutional, and with Federal government openly working to impose diversity on white America through “Fair Housing,” Section 8, refugee resettlement etc., no city can protect itself against the kind of white flight we’ve seen over a 40 year time period in Ferguson.
>Once whites leave the city, the tax base erodes, property values plummet, and only certain kinds of businesses can feasibly stay open and turn a profit.  I call this effect the “Black Undertow.” This is what happened to Ferguson, and the riots have only accelerated the flight of human capital from the city.
>These numbers are nearly a complete match to the crime statistics I pulled from the City of St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department Annual Report to the Community, which breaks down the arrests rates for violent crime by race (you can research 1999-2012 at the site).
>In other words, black criminality in and around Ferguson is systematic and long-standing. And as the proportion of blacks in Ferguson rose, the absolute amount of crime increased even more dramatically.
He makes the same point here: https://donotlink.it/1J2lQ
Apparently when blacks move in, they scare the poor decent whites away. 
This has a number of false assumptions in my mind.
First off Blacks never really had the same housing rights of whites: 
https://equalrightscenter.org/source-of-income-and-race-discrimination-dc/ https://thinkprogress.org/study-finds-rampant-discrimination-by-landlords-against-people-who-get-housing-help-98be24c1ecff/ https://www.citylab.com/equity/2019/01/section-8-housing-government-low-income-vouchers-renters/579496/ https://www.shareable.net/timeline-of-100-years-of-racist-housing-policy-that-created-a-separate-and-unequal-america/ https://prospect.org/justice/staggering-loss-black-wealth-due-subprime-scandal-continues-unabated/
https://www.citylab.com/equity/2017/02/how-segregated-schools-built-segregated-cities/515373/?utm_source=feed https://www.stltoday.com/news/multimedia/special/lending-discrimination-redlining-still-plague-st-louis-new-data-show/article_3e1a6847-799b-58d7-a680-651a0c1a2ea8.html http://www.urbanreviewstl.com/2018/05/opinion-housing-discrimination-remains-an-issue/ https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrimination_in_awarding_Section_8_housing
This isn't even getting into how banks were using race-based predatory loans then defaulting on them:
https://www.shareable.net/timeline-of-100-years-of-racist-housing-policy-that-created-a-separate-and-unequal-america/ https://prospect.org/justice/staggering-loss-black-wealth-due-subprime-scandal-continues-unabated/
So this goes a long way towards explaining the lowering of property values. Heck whites were convinced by these same lenders to leave in the first place: https://medium.com/@DmitriMehlhorn/a-requiem-for-blockbusting-68152244e77a
So it's not like blacks could even have the same option of leaving. Large numbers of poor black families live in hyper-segregated neighborhoods with limited access to opportunity.
As for crime rates blacks are increased for the same crimes whites do, but while the later goes free the former gets overly harsh sentences: 
https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/black-men-sentenced-time-white-men-crime-study/story?id=51203491 
https://www.google.com/urlsa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://repository.law.umich.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi%3Farticle%3D2413%26context%3Darticles&ved=2ahUKEwjZ5-qHnZ7nAhUSTN8KHTGBB1IQFjAEegQIAxAB&usg=AOvVaw0mC68DbqGFvw6cm40JS1qx 
https://www.splcenter.org/20180614/biggest-lie-white-supremacist-propaganda-playbook-unraveling-truth-about-%E2%80%98black-white-crime
For another example...
https://crosscut.com/2019/05/report-shows-seattle-police-enforcement-still-disparate-along-racial-lines
https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2016/9/28/1575387/-Not-only-is-stop-and-frisk-unconstitutional-it-doesn-t-work-no-matter-what-Trump-or-Giuliani-say
Notice how blacks are searched more often yet few weapons are found on them, while it is the reverse for whites?
That’s because not all criminal activity is reported and not all laws are applied equally. Police departments already disproportionately police and surveil poor communities and communities of color.
Certain communities, often white and middle-class, that place greater trust in police departments are more likely to report crimes and Black communities are more likely to be reported as suspected of committing crimes. 
Hell white kids avoid discipline and suspension, while minorities don't! And it isn't because minorities are evil: 
https://www.pnas.org/content/116/17/8255 
https://supportiveschooldiscipline.org/learn/reference-guides/discipline-disparities
We only know about reported and solved crimes, and the bias in favor of white victims of black people is there. Poor, black victims are not generating as much interest, which is known and pretty much incontroversial.
Then there are the cops actively supporting the racists as well: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/aug/21/police-white-nationalists-racist-violence
https://theintercept.com/2019/08/16/portland-far-right-rally/
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/disturbing-texts-between-oregon-police-far-right-group-prompts-investigation-n972161
There are many ways the crime stats could be skewed.
What do you think?

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 3 | u/Trystiane
	Your post is pretty complicated and I'm not sure what you are
	actually asking.  The US Justice Department did find [Ferguson in
	Violation of Civil Rights](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-
	department-announces-findings-two-civil-rights-investigations-
	ferguson-missouri) in 2015 and later sued them the enforce an
	overhaul of the police department.

	comment score: 1 | u/Revue_of_Zero
	I do not have much time at the moment, so I am giving a quick reply
	to the question on the basis of the first blog post you quoted. As
	far as I can understand from a quick reading, the framework is the
	following: * **Question:** Is Ferguson PD racist? * **Proposition
	1:** The proportion of African Americans in Ferguson has increased
	over the years. * **Proposition 2:** Most people arrested by Ferguson
	PD are African Americans. * **Conclusion:** ~~Ferguson PD is not
	racist.~~ The logic does not flow. The first proposition looks like a
	blatant red herring to me, and the rest of the argument seems to be
	begging the question. If those arrested are mostly African Americans,
	and the contention is that those making arrests are racially
	prejudiced, it is circular logic to conclude that police officers are
	not racists by pointing out that the majority of arrestees are
	African Americans.  --- Broadly speaking, it is not as simple as
	pulling up official statistics to determine whether racial bias
	exists, and if yes, what are its outcomes - there is a reason why
	there is a lot of ongoing research on the topic, instead of
	researchers just pointing to official statistics and calling it a
	day.  For example, see [this thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskSoci
	alScience/comments/dgcxa5/doesnt_the_data_on_police_shootings_demonst
	rate/) ^(1) on the topic of use-of-force and racial disparities, and
	also [this thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comments
	/eoeqth/broad_questions_about_the_use_and_effectiveness/) for some
	examples on evidence about disparate uses of TASERs. I would also
	suggest checking [this thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialScie
	nce/comments/elzy3i/whats_the_case_for_considering_the_war_on_crime_a
	/) too, regarding the relationship between the War on Crime and the
	War on Drugs and racial disparities. There are many other threads in
	this subreddit on the same topic, to be honest, on several aspects of
	the overarching question. My overall point would be that there are
	several reasons to not take official statistics at face value.
	Critical thinking and careful assessments are necessary, including
	probing the history and context of these data and the processes which
	lead to the outcomes observed in official data. In short, it is
	necessary to take into account several factors (including policies).
	--- Signing off, I would highlight a core issue which is often hand-
	waved or ignored: the police should be *individuating*, rather than
	acting on stereotypes - regardless of whether these can be considered
	accurate or not. For example, police should stop someone, use force
	against someone, and so forth in response to their actual behavior,
	not because other people with their same skin color committed crimes.
	I may return to this later and read the rest with care, if I got
	time, and am not distracted by something else. But to be honest, I do
	not believe it is worthwhile or a valuable use of time and energy to
	spend much efforts in attempting to seriously "debunk" a
	[VDARE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VDARE) blog post.

		comment score: 1 | u/ryu289 (OP)
		> The logic does not flow. The first proposition looks like a
		blatant red herring to me, and the rest of the argument seems to be
		begging the question. If those arrested are mostly African
		Americans, and the contention is that those making arrests are
		racially prejudiced, it is circular logic to conclude that police
		officers are not racists by pointing out that the majority of
		arrestees are African Americans. Agreed

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
		Top level comments must include a peer reviewed citation that can be
		viewed via a link to the source. Please contact the mods if you feel
		this was inappropriately removed. *I am a bot, and this action was
		performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
		subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
		questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/ChiefBobKelso
	[For a general response to racial bias in arrest rates, this video is
	pretty good. ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Peg2imN7XiU) Sources
	in the description. > As for crime rates blacks are increased for the
	same crimes whites do, but while the later goes free the former gets
	overly harsh sentences [This is not conclusively down to racial bias 
	either.](https://repository.law.umich.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer
	=https://www.google.com/&httpsredir=1&article=2413&context=articles)
	From the paper: > However, these differences may not be solely the
	result of race. The black and white defendant pools differ on two key
	legally relevant dimensions. First, black defendants, on average,
	have more extensive criminal histories: only 20 percent of black
	defendants are in the lowest criminal history category compared with
	45 percent of white defendants. Second, there are differences in the
	distribution of arrest offenses. Table 1 contains the distribution of
	arrestees across broad offense categories. For example, black
	defendants are more likely than white defendants to be arrested for
	weapons offenses. Black arrestees are also more likely to have at
	least one aggravating factor noted in the written description of the
	arrest offense. In addition, there are differences in observables
	that, while not legally relevant, could be correlated with case
	outcomes, in particular, socioeconomic status. Black arrestees are
	more likely to be sufficiently poor to qualify for a publicly funded
	attorney (84 percent compared with 60 percent), and 43 percent of
	black arrestees are high school dropouts compared with only 29
	percent of whites. Basically, there are other variables and, as
	usual, racial bias is being assumed. > Hell white kids avoid
	discipline and suspension, while minorities don't [Well this study
	says this is accounted for simply by controlling for past behaviour,]
	(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0047235214000105)
	and [this says that Blacks and Whites were equally likely to be
	suspended once they were sent to the principal’s
	office.](http://indiana.edu/~equity/docs/ColorofDiscipline2002.pdf)

		comment score: 1 | u/ryu289 (OP)
		>For example, black defendants are more likely than white defendants
		to be arrested for weapons offenses.
		https://crosscut.com/2019/05/report-shows-seattle-police-
		enforcement-still-disparate-along-racial-lines Why is it then in
		this study that people of color were more likely to be searched by a
		Seattle police officer, but less likely to have a weapon? Oh and
		officers pointed their guns less often at white people. >Black
		arrestees are also more likely to have at least one aggravating
		factor noted in the written description of the arrest offense.  >In
		addition, there are differences in observables that, while not
		legally relevant, could be correlated with case outcomes, in
		particular, socioeconomic status. Black arrestees are more likely to
		be sufficiently poor to qualify for a publicly funded attorney (84
		percent compared with 60 percent), and 43 percent of black arrestees
		are high school dropouts compared with only 29 percent of whites.
		Well there is are strong reasons for that: https://www.reddit.com/r/
		ForwardsFromKlandma/comments/etogtx/racist_essays_have_not_aged_well
		/ >Well this study says this is accounted for simply by controlling
		for past behaviour, and this says that Blacks and Whites were
		equally likely to be suspended once they were sent to the
		principal’s office. Here is a good criticism of the study in the
		first link: https://scatter.wordpress.com/2015/03/12/what-are-we-
		measuring-when-we-measure-behavior-elementary-school-edition/
		>>Measures of past behavior are never simply measures of an
		individuals’ underlying personality or disposition to behave well or
		badly, nor even of their actual behavior (whatever that means).
		These measures are created in a particular context, and thus carry
		with them the biases of that context. >>Here the mechanism would not
		necessarily be the actual record itself (as in the case of parole
		screenings, where past behavior is literally a variable in a model
		that determines parole decisions), but rather similarities in the
		decision-making context of teachers reporting how badly behaved
		students are (the main independent variable is an average of
		teachers’ reports from Kindergarten, 1st, and 3rd grade) and the
		context of teachers deciding whether or not to suspend a student (in
		8th grade). Wright et al address one potential concern with their
		interpretation – a labeling theory story, whereby teachers’ negative
		assessments early in childhood lead later teachers to assess those
		children more harshly later – but they don’t address what to me is a
		deeper problem: what if the kindergarten, first, and third grade
		teachers are themselves racially biased in their evaluations of
		problem behavior? Put another way, is it possible that white kids
		have to act out a lot more in order to be labeled a problem?** If
		that’s the case, then all the study is showing is a version of
		Harcourt’s finding: evaluations of past behavior encode systematic
		biases, and risk becomes a proxy for race. From the second link:
		>>Rather, there appeared to be a differential pattern of treatment,
		originating at the classroom level, wherein African-American
		students are referred to the office for infractions that are more
		subjective in interpretation. Implications for teacher training and
		structural reform are explored. Tsk, tsk.

			comment score: 1 | u/ChiefBobKelso
			> Why is it then in this study that people of color were more
			likely to be searched by a Seattle police officer, but less likely
			to have a weapon? I don't know. However, given that this is one
			specific point and not the grander, overarching narrative of
			overwhelming racial bias within policing, it would be almost
			irrelevant if I let this slide anyway. It would be interesting to
			hear why you think this is explained by racial bias, but shootings
			and arrests don't seem to be. It might even just be because blacks
			assume they can't get away with carrying a weapon, whereas whites
			assume they can, assuming that this is true, and not accounted for
			by other factors instead of race. > Oh and officers pointed their
			guns less often at white people. And were these white people being
			just as threatening on average? [Officers are three times less
			likely to shoot unarmed black suspects than unarmed white
			suspects.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/true-
			crime/wp/2016/04/27/this-study-found-race-matters-in-police-
			shootings-but-the-results-may-surprise-you/) > Well there is are
			strong reasons for that: https://www.reddit.com/r/ForwardsFromKland
			ma/comments/etogtx/racist_essays_have_not_aged_well/ Look, I'm not
			going to go down the rabbit hole of >>> X is caused by racism. >> X
			is better explained by Y. > Ok, but Y is caused by racism. It's
			potentially never-ending.  > Here is a good criticism of the study
			in the first link... Measures of past behavior are never simply
			measures of an individuals’ underlying personality or disposition
			to behave well or badly, nor even of their actual behavior
			(whatever that means). These measures are created in a particular
			context, and thus carry with them the biases of that context. You
			can always just assert that past behaviour is only picked up on
			because of racial bias. Sounds like an assumption of racial bias.
			> Rather, there appeared to be a differential pattern of treatment,
			originating at the classroom level, wherein African-American
			students are referred to the office for infractions that are more
			subjective in interpretation. Implications for teacher training and
			structural reform are explored. And threatening the teacher is
			called subjective... This is a distinction made specifically to
			excuse the difference. Try telling the teacher being threatened
			that that misbehaviour is only "subjective". Regardless, it is
			disruptive behaviour.

				comment score: 1 | u/ryu289 (OP)
				>I don't know. However, given that this is one specific point and
				not the grander, overarching narrative of overwhelming racial bias
				within policing Sorry, forgot these:
				https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2016/9/28/1575387/-Not-only-is-
				stop-and-frisk-unconstitutional-it-doesn-t-work-no-matter-what-
				Trump-or-Giuliani-say https://www.aclum.org/en/ending-racist-stop-
				and-frisk https://www.citylab.com/equity/2016/10/racial-
				disparities-in-police-stingray-surveillance-mapped/502715/ >It's
				potentially never-ending. So the fact that school segregation,
				predatory lending, the fact that cops have often been seen working
				with the racist altright have any effects? Remember, you pointed
				out: >In addition, there are differences in observables that,
				while not legally relevant, could be correlated with case
				outcomes, in particular, socioeconomic status. Black arrestees are
				more likely to be sufficiently poor to qualify for a publicly
				funded attorney (84 percent compared with 60 percent), and 43
				percent of black arrestees are high school dropouts compared with
				only 29 percent of whites. And I found evidence linking it to
				racism. Simply saying you could find a better explanation, but
				refuse to avoid infinite regress seems a bit lazy. As in you don't
				think it's right, but aren't even going to try and prove it.  >You
				can always just assert that past behaviour is only picked up on
				because of racial bias. Sounds like an assumption of racial bias.
				Ah, but he doesn't say race there. Who's assuming here ;) >And
				threatening the teacher is called subjective And you get the idea
				of threats where?  You said this: >and this says that Blacks and
				Whites were equally likely to be suspended once they were sent to
				the principal’s office. But the study you gave said differently.
				>Racial and gender disparities in office referrals, suspensions,
				and expulsions were somewhat more robust than socioeconomic
				differences. Both racial and gender differences remained when
				controlling for socioeconomic status. Finally, although evidence
				emerged that boys engage more frequently in a broad range of
				disruptive behavior, there were no similar findings for race.
				Rather, there appeared to be a differential pattern of treatment,
				originating at the classroom level, wherein African-American
				students are referred to the office for infractions that are more
				subjective in interpretation. Implications for teacher training
				and structural reform are explored. This is called "shooting
				yourself in the foot".

					comment score: 1 | u/ChiefBobKelso
					> So the fact that school segregation, predatory lending, the
					fact that cops have often been seen working with the racist
					altright have any effects? Schools really don't matter, loans are
					given out according to the rates that the races pay them back,
					and "cops have often been seen working with the racist alt-right"
					is just anecdote and not data. > And I found evidence linking it
					to racism. Simply saying you could find a better explanation, but
					refuse to avoid infinite regress seems a bit lazy Lazy in the
					sense that it's a lot of citation work that I can't be bothered
					to do, because it will just keep repeating, sure. I'm willing to
					admit that I'm not willing right now to go down the "but it's
					caused by something which is caused by racism" spiral. > Ah, but
					he doesn't say race there. Who's assuming here ;) Then don't
					bring up irrelevant stuff... > And you get the idea of threats
					where? Well actually from a critique of the paper, but the paper
					itself says "Black students were more likely to be referred for
					disrespect, excessive noise, threat, and loitering." > But the
					study you gave said differently There is no contradiction
					there... Differences in suspension rates remain after controlling
					for SES, but not previous behaviour, and I already commented on
					the "subjective" thing.

						comment score: 1 | u/ryu289 (OP)
						>Schools really don't matter, loans are given out according to
						the rates that the races pay them back, and "cops have often
						been seen working with the racist alt-right" is just anecdote
						and not data. First off school expulsions have a direct
						correlation to crime/poverty:
						https://www.vox.com/2015/2/24/8101289/school-discipline-race
						Second loans aren't given out to those that can afford them.
						https://www.shareable.net/timeline-of-100-years-of-racist-
						housing-policy-that-created-a-separate-and-unequal-america/
						https://prospect.org/justice/staggering-loss-black-wealth-due-
						subprime-scandal-continues-unabated/ Finally it is hardly
						ancedotal:
						https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/aug/21/police-
						white-nationalists-racist-violence
						https://theintercept.com/2019/08/16/portland-far-right-rally/
						https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/disturbing-texts-between-
						oregon-police-far-right-group-prompts-investigation-n972161
						>Lazy in the sense that it's a lot of citation work that I can't
						be bothered to do, because it will just keep repeating, sure.
						I'm willing to admit that I'm not willing right now to go down
						the "but it's caused by something which is caused by racism"
						spiral. So you say, but failing to meet a burden of proof on
						your claims is bad form either way. >Well actually from a
						critique of the paper, but the paper itself says "Black students
						were more likely to be referred for disrespect, excessive noise,
						threat, and loitering." Yes and the paper said that white
						students weren't referred for doing the same things. I just
						realized we are looking at an 18 year old paper. Let's look at
						more current reasearch:
						https://www.apmreports.org/story/2016/08/25/reforming-school-
						discipline
						https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0895904812453999
						Ok, so a zero tolerance policy does nothing to help, no big
						surprise...
						https://www.brookings.edu/research/disproportionality-in-
						student-discipline-connecting-policy-to-research/ >The DCL cites
						multiple studies in its assertion that differences in behavior
						do not explain the gap in disparities.[4] The work of Skiba et
						al. (2011) is among the most convincing cited.[5] The authors
						draw upon administrative data from 436 schools across the
						country in 2005-06, looking at differences in discipline for
						“minor misbehavior.” They find black and Hispanic students were
						more likely to be disciplined conditional on receiving a
						referral for “minor misbehavior” than were their white peers.
						While they do admit correlation doesn't equal causation...later
						on: >That is, a poor black student is 10 percentage points
						likelier than a poor white student in the same school, grade-
						level, and year to be suspended; he is 16 percentage points
						likelier than a white student who is not free lunch eligible. In
						other words, racial disparities are not solely a function of
						differences in family income by race. This finding is broadly
						consistent with Skiba et al. (2002), who studied a large
						Midwestern district, and with Raffaele Mendez and Knoff (2003),
						who studied a Florida district, both in the mid-1990s.[8,9]
						>Barrett et al. conduct a similar exercise predicting the length
						of a suspension, in days. Black students were predicted to have
						an additional .099 days per suspension, off a base of 2.9 days
						as the mean suspension for whites. Previous work in Arkansas,
						also controlling for school fixed effects, estimated that black
						students received about an additional .07 days per
						suspension.[10] The authors then attempt to get closer to
						studying disparities in discipline conditional on student
						behavior by comparing outcomes for black and white students who
						participated in the same fight. They find this cut the
						additional days of suspension predicted for black students
						roughly in half; black students still received slightly longer
						suspensions, by about .04 to .05 days, than their white
						counterparts in these cases. This result is small in magnitude
						but statistically significant. Interesting...
						https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2016-49296-001 >To improve our
						understanding of where to target interventions, the study
						examined the extent to which school discipline
						disproportionality between African American and White students
						was attributable to racial disparities in teachers’
						discretionary versus nondiscretionary decisions. The sample
						consisted of office discipline referral (ODR) records for
						1,154,686 students enrolled in 1,824 U.S. schools. Analyses
						compared the relative contributions of disproportionality in
						ODRs for subjectively and objectively defined behaviors to
						overall disproportionality, controlling for relevant school
						characteristics. Results showed that disproportionality in
						subjective ODRs explained the vast majority of variance in total
						disproportionality. These findings suggest that providing
						educators with strategies to neutralize the effects of implicit
						bias, which is known to influence discretionary decisions and
						interpretations of ambiguous behaviors, may be a promising
						avenue for achieving equity in school discipline.  Ahha! More
						recent studies confirm this:
						https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0042085915623337
						>Those who read a vignette about a Black student believed that
						the student was more likely to misbehave in the future, compared
						with those who read a vignette about a White student. These
						findings suggest that some teachers attribute the misbehavior of
						Black male students to more stable causes, which may lead them
						to alter their behavior toward these students. See more here: ht
						tps://scholar.google.com/scholar?as_ylo=2019&q=disproportionate+
						school+discipline+racism+behavior&hl=en&as_sdt=0,31&as_vis=1 And
						we know discipline has the opposite effect:
						https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/changeable/201810/is-
						school-discipline-guilty It causes negative behavioral changes:
						https://www.addictionpolicy.org/blog/tag/research-you-can-
						use/the-impact-of-racism-and-mindfulness-on-health
						https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4026365/ Finally, I
						wish to correct something you said:  > Officers are three times
						less likely to shoot unarmed black suspects than unarmed white
						suspects. That study was flawed: https://mobile.twitter.com/jonm
						ummolo/status/1157056407134449665?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5
						Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1157056407134449665&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2
						Fwww.citylab.com%2Fequity%2F2019%2F08%2Fpolice-officer-
						shootings-gun-violence-racial-bias-crime-data%2F595528%2F

							comment score: 1 | u/ChiefBobKelso
							> First off school expulsions have a direct correlation to
							crime/poverty Almost like the people who are low intelligence
							and have low self control are also more likely to be badly
							behaved in school. > Second loans aren't given out to those
							that can afford them [Here is a video going over redlining and
							racial bias in
							lending.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BOi2jNpPFX0) Sources
							in the blogpost in description. > Finally it is hardly
							ancedotal Giving these anecdotes is just proving my point.
							Statistics would be useful. It would also be not entirely
							relevant because what we want is evidence of actual behaviour,
							rather than supposed implicit bias. > So you say, but failing
							to meet a burden of proof on your claims is bad form either way
							I agree. I'm willing to accept that. > Yes and the paper said
							that white students weren't referred for doing the same things
							Literally so what? At best, this shows that they get sent for
							different reasons, but not that there is any bias. > Let's look
							at more current reasearch The first is literally the paper we
							are already discussing. It's talking about Skiba. Also, is it
							zero tolerance or isn't it? If it is, and blacks are getting
							called out more, then that shows blacks are misbehaving more.
							If you want to say that that's because whites actually get away
							with more, then they are tolerating more and thus isn't zero
							tolerance, kind of undermining the point of the article. As for
							the second, it is useless. "This study estimates the effect of
							zero tolerance disciplinary policies on racial disparities in
							school discipline in an urban district". It doesn't discuss
							offending rates. > And we know discipline has the opposite
							effect... It causes negative behavioral changes Irrelevant to
							the point being made. > That study was flawed Maybe it's just
							me, but that seems to be a different study being criticised. He
							is talking about [this
							study](https://www.pnas.org/content/116/32/15877) from
							california, whereas what I linked was from Washington state.
							The methodology is also completely different with one using
							official statistics, and the one I linked used simulations of
							real scenarios.

								comment score: 1 | u/ryu289 (OP)
								>Here is a video going over redlining and racial bias in
								lending. Sources in the blogpost in description It's very
								wrong: https://ideasanddata.wordpress.com/2019/08/10/on-
								redlining-and-racial-bias-in-lending/comment-
								page-1/#comment-14422 >Also, is it zero tolerance or isn't it?
								If it is, and blacks are getting called out more, then that
								shows blacks are misbehaving more. If you want to say that
								that's because whites actually get away with more, then they
								are tolerating more and thus isn't zero tolerance, kind of
								undermining the point of the article So saying you have a zero
								tolerance policy is the same as following through in applying
								it consistently? How about the fact that because they don't is
								a sign of bias?  >Irrelevant to the point being made. Beyond
								creating a self-fulfilling prophecy of "blacks are less
								behaved"? Creating a negative steryotype?  >Maybe it's just
								me, but that seems to be a different study being criticised.
								He is talking about this study from california, whereas what I
								linked was from Washington state.  My bad...but that study is
								wrong too: https://www.citylab.com/equity/2017/02/is-reverse-
								racism-among-police-real/513503/

									comment score: 1 | u/ChiefBobKelso
									> It's very wrong For whatever reason, the comments don't
									seem to be loading for me, even after using a different
									browser. > Beyond creating a self-fulfilling prophecy of
									"blacks are less behaved"? Creating a negative steryotype?
									Well which is it? Do blacks behave worse as this effect you
									mention would suggest (assuming that they start off the same
									level of misbehaviour but then become worse after the
									effect), or do blacks behave exactly the same and this just
									creates a false stereotype, thus the effect is non-existent?
									> My bad...but that study is wrong too So the criticism of
									the study is basically that it disagreed with the implicit
									bias test? Well, given the IAT is, essentially, a load of
									bull, I don't consider that a problem. As for the study being
									talked about, it only talks about fatalities, and some of the
									data is questionable. It seems to categorize fighting against
									officers and brandishing a knife at them as "other" and not
									"attack in progress". These are just a couple I saw when I
									clicked through and hovered over random ones. Kevin Allen,
									for example, charged at police officers using a knife, and he
									is not under "attack in progress".

										comment score: 1 | u/ryu289 (OP)
										It looks like my comments were deleted, in them, I mentioned
										that he used cherry-picked quotes and most data he was
										decades old >Well which is it? Do blacks behave worse as
										this effect you mention would suggest (assuming that they
										start off the same level of misbehaviour but then become
										worse after the effect), or do blacks behave exactly the
										same and this just creates a false stereotype, thus the
										effect is non-existent? First off, the disproportionate use
										of punishment used in enforcement creates a negative
										steryotype that blacks are bad. This steryotype influence
										teachers to continue doing such biased enforcement which can
										have long term negative consequences:
										https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3863357/
										https://www.pnas.org/content/116/17/8255 >>These disparities
										are particularly concerning as they are associated with
										long-term outcomes, including employment (7) and involvement
										in the criminal justice system (8). >So the criticism of the
										study is basically that it disagreed with the implicit bias
										test? Well, given the IAT is, essentially, a load of bull, I
										don't consider that a problem.  Why? Also: >>Moreover, on
										the question of whether the person was attacking the police
										when they were killed—Nix’s team found that white suspects
										were more often the attackers than were non-white suspects.
										This was found true even after controlling for factors such
										as the age of the victim or whether the victim had a mental
										illness. As for the criticism >>The authors’ conclusions
										simultaneously hold that (a) officers are not purposefully
										hesitating to shoot simulated Black subjects to influence
										the experiment’s political fallout (which preserves external
										validity); (b) officers are reasoning carefully about
										politics, which makes them hesitate to shoot simulated Black
										suspects (and that this also happens on the street); and (c)
										scoring highly on implicit bias against Black citizens has a
										reverse effect on their shooting decisions. This explanation
										is internally contradictory and fails to consider the
										results of similar research where officers seemed
										uninterested in protecting their departments from political
										fallout (Correll et al., 2002; Correll et al., 2007). See?
										Fryer has his own issues:
										https://www.vox.com/2016/7/11/12149468/racism-police-
										shootings-data

		comment score: 1 | u/ChiefBobKelso
		> It looks like my comments were deleted, in them, I mentioned that
		he used cherry-picked quotes and most data he was decades old
		Assuming your comment was new, it's likely just a spam filter or
		that they are manually approved. Regardless, "cherry-picked quotes"
		is not a very useful counter, and while decades old data is
		potentially meaningful, unless you're suggesting that people have
		gotten more racist against blacks over time, it's not going to have
		changed in favour of your argument. > First off, the
		disproportionate use of punishment used in enforcement creates a
		negative steryotype that blacks are bad. This steryotype influence
		teachers to continue doing such biased enforcement which can have
		long term negative consequences So blacks were always as well-
		behaved as whites, but then got punished unfairly, causing them to
		behave even worse and thus get even more harshly punished? Is there
		evidence of this? Is there evidence of the gap getting bigger or
		smaller with more years of education? > Why? [Because they don't
		seem to predict actual behaviour, so they're practically useless
		anyway, and they also have low test-retest
		reliability.](https://qz.com/1144504/the-world-is-relying-on-a-
		flawed-psychological-test-to-fight-racism/) > A 2017 meta-analysis
		that looked at 494 previous studies (currently under peer review and
		not yet published in a journal) from several researchers, including
		Nosek, found that reducing implicit bias did not affect behavior.
		>First, reliability: In psychology, a test has strong “test-retest
		reliability” when a user can retake it and get a roughly similar
		score. Perfect reliability is scored as a 1, and defined as when a
		group of people repeatedly take the same test and their scores are
		always ranked in the exact same order. It’s a tough ask. A
		psychological test is considered strong if it has a test-retest
		reliability of at least 0.7, and preferably over 0.8. Current
		studies have found the race IAT to have a test-retest reliability
		score of 0.44, while the IAT overall is around 0.5 (pdf); even the
		high end of that range is considered “unacceptable” in psychology.
		It means users get wildly different scores whenever they retake the
		test. > it came as a major blow when four separate (pdf)
		meta–analyses (pdf), undertaken between 2009 and 2015—each examining
		between 46 and 167 individual studies—all showed the IAT to be a
		weak predictor of behavior. Two of the meta-analyses focus on the
		race IAT while two examine the IAT’s links with behavior more
		broadly, but all four show weak predictive abilities.” > Also:
		Moreover, on the question of whether the person was attacking the
		police when they were killed—Nix’s team found that white suspects
		were more often the attackers than were non-white suspects Hence my
		criticism of the data... The data is already split into currently
		attacking, but under "other" are examples of people who are
		attacking or are fighting back or being threatening. They are
		looking at the attacking category, but there are attacks that they
		aren't counting. > As for the criticism In other words, this is a
		criticism about not the results; but the interpretation of them. I
		don't see how this invalidates the data. > Fryer has his own issues
		Again, this is a different study being criticised, and only produces
		potential problems for the data you have presented. Also, just as a
		general response to you, which claim are we discussing? This is
		getting too broad.

			comment score: 1 | u/ryu289 (OP)
			>Because they don't seem to predict actual behaviour, so they're
			practically useless anyway, and they also have low test-retest
			reliability. Right...https://www.reddit.com/r/AskSocialScience/comm
			ents/ek0t8b/is_there_an_objective_way_to_measure_racism/fd75v3l/
			>In other words, this is a criticism about not the results; but the
			interpretation of them. I don't see how this invalidates the data.
			It was  critcism on how variables were ignored. >"Again, this is a
			different study being criticised, and only produces potential
			problems for the data you have presented." How? You give no
			reasoning for that >Regardless, "cherry-picked quotes" is not a
			very useful counter, and while decades old data is potentially
			meaningful, unless you're suggesting that people have gotten more
			racist against blacks over time, it's not going to have changed in
			favour of your argument. Sorry, I should have stated that it was
			quote mining.  >"Is there evidence of this? Is there evidence of
			the gap getting bigger or smaller with more years of education?"
			No, but that isn't  necessary fact is numerous studies have shown
			that discipline correlates with percieved bias, not percieved
			behavior.  https://www.pnas.org/content/116/17/8255 And higher
			discipline correlates with lower educational achievement.
			https://ed.stanford.edu/news/racial-disparities-school-discipline-
			are-linked-achievement-gap-between-black-and-white Remember, it
			isn't just students being told to go to time out, many of these
			kids are suspended and it looks like bias has more to do with that.

	comment score: 1 | u/ryu289 (OP)
	For the record, hands up don't shoot wasn't a lie:
	https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2015/3/27/1371761/-No-Jonathon-
	Capehart-Hands-Up-Don-t-Shoot-is-not-a-Lie Also:
	https://www.baltimoresun.com/opinion/op-ed/bs-ed-pitts-
	trump-20160522-story.html

		comment score: 1 | u/AcusFocus
		Happy cake day to you Happy cake day to you Happy cake day dear
		u/ryu289 Happy cake day to you!

-----------------------------------------

post score: 1 | r/AskSocialScience | u/fspluver | 14 comments | 2019-12-09 | https://redd.it/e8l51w
POST TITLE: Is there research on whether or not Black college students are graded differently than White students?
I am writing a paper and making an assumption that, due to bias, Black students are given systematically worse grades than White students for the same work. Is there any research on this?

	comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
	Thanks for your question to /r/AskSocialScience. All posters, please
	remember that this subreddit requires peer-reviewed, cited sources
	(Please see Rule 1 and 3). All posts that do not have citations will
	be removed by AutoMod. *I am a bot, and this action was performed
	automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
	subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
	questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
		Top level comments must include a peer reviewed citation that can be
		viewed via a link to the source. Please contact the mods if you feel
		this was inappropriately removed. *I am a bot, and this action was
		performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
		subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
		questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/fspluver (OP)
		Thanks, but I'm having trouble opening the link. Could you please
		list the title/authors?

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
		Top level comments must include a peer reviewed citation that can be
		viewed via a link to the source. Please contact the mods if you feel
		this was inappropriately removed. *I am a bot, and this action was
		performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
		subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
		questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 1 | u/AutoModerator
		Top level comments must include a peer reviewed citation that can be
		viewed via a link to the source. Please contact the mods if you feel
		this was inappropriately removed. *I am a bot, and this action was
		performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this
		subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AskSocialScience) if you have any
		questions or concerns.*

	comment score: 1 | u/socim8
	Croft & schmader 2012 feedback withholding
	https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2012-12618-001

		comment score: 1 | u/fspluver (OP)
		This is helpful, thank you!

	comment score: 1 | u/None
	[removed]

		comment score: 2 | u/None
		[removed]

			comment score: 1 | u/None
			[removed]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskSocialScience | u/643796794558676644 | 2 comments | 2019-11-20 | https://redd.it/dz2pnk
POST TITLE: Researching a user's relationship to technology while avoiding technological determinist pitfalls?
[removed]

	comment score: 1 | u/MoralMidgetry
	This submission has been removed as it's not a specific and
	answerable social science question.

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/mae1995111 | 60 comments | 2019-10-07 | https://redd.it/deu6hl
POST TITLE: Do you think that Social media/online dating is allowing more bad men to enter relationships?
Men can judge a mans character better compared to that of women judging the character of men. Not including homosexuals, men only judge other men on their character and not on their sexual attraction. Of course subconsciously, objective standards of positive physical attributes (e.g. symmetrical face) can bias a mans opinion of another man, most of it is to do with the mans character and use in a society.
Social media has allowed women to be at the forefront of choosing a dating partner without the input of other men. They can 'window-shop' and judge a man solely by how he presents and perceives himself compared to how other men perceive him. Before women would observe how a man fit in with other men (e.g. how dominant they were, how competent they were compared to their peers) and select the men based on this.
However women are biased by their sexual attraction to males, which influences how she perceives the mans character i.e. more physically attractive to women means better character subconsciously during first impressions.
Of course after dating for a period of time she can better judge a mans character but other things get in the way. They become infatuated by the man due to the chemicals released during sex (nowadays sex ofter happens very early in the relationship not after marriage when the woman could better judge the man she was dating without the hormones released during sex) and this in turn means that they are more biased.
Men with positive character traits who are physically unattractive cannot get their foot through the door (if women were to solely use online dating which I know is not true but it is increasingly popular) and therefore they are becoming excluded from dating.

	comment score: 1 | u/KaliTheCat
	Your post history leads me to believe your participation here is in
	less than good faith. You are warned.

	comment score: 15 | u/None
	Women don't need men to help them judge other men, thank you very
	much. Women will make many mistakes judging other people's
	characters, just as men do.

		comment score: -6 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
		In the wild, men would hunt and the man who brung back the food was
		seen as a hero and often he got all the women because they were
		attracted to that. Yes, it was men doing the hunting therefore the
		men were working cooperatively together and other men vetting each
		other out and giving responsibility to the other men ie. you make
		the arrows, I'll make the bows etc.

			comment score: 8 | u/None
			What are you even talking about?

		comment score: -13 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
		>Women don't need men to help them judge other men Women used to
		mostly rely on other men to judge a mans competence. Of course women
		entering the workplace has changed this (in the grand scheme of
		things a recent development) but historically this wasn't the case.
		>just as men do I agree, however I feel that women and men are
		better at judging their same sex because they don't have the bias of
		sexual attraction biasing their judgment.

			comment score: 15 | u/None
			>Women used to mostly rely on other men to judge a mans competence.
			Source? >I agree, however I feel that women and men are better at
			judging their same sex because they don't have the bias of sexual
			attraction biasing their judgment. Source?

			comment score: 8 | u/JulieCrone
			Yeah, in patriarchies a father would usually choose who his
			children marry and the more power and property he had, the more say
			he had.  This has shown not to be such a good thing.

				comment score: -3 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
				If you say the so called patriarchy existed, how did women come to
				be part of the workplace? According to your logic men must have
				decided to let women into the workplace (wow such a patriarchy).
				It was not the feminist protesters who did this.

					comment score: 7 | u/JulieCrone
					Huh?  Just because there a society is patriarchal doesn't mean
					women didn't work.

						comment score: -1 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
						Give one example of how the west is a patriarchy

							comment score: 7 | u/JulieCrone
							[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purity\_ball](https://en.wikiped
							ia.org/wiki/Purity_ball)  See also the Catholic Church. Given
							that Christianity is still the dominant religion in the west, a
							major contributor to 'western culture' and the way it is
							practiced is pretty darned patriarchal, with some denominations
							being more explicitly so, I would say there is that.

								comment score: 1 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
								>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purity\_ball I didn't read any
								of that. However if you're against the case that sexual
								abstinence before marriage in a time when reliable birth
								control was non-existent is a bad idea, I don't know what to
								tell you.

									comment score: 7 | u/JulieCrone
									Maybe that's why you should have read it to get what I was
									talking about.

										comment score: 1 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
										This is such a small event that such a minor percentage of
										the western public attend that it is basically irrelevant.
										Do you have any examples of the patriarchy in the west that
										negatively effects the majority or large minority of women?

		comment score: 3 | u/JulieCrone
		> See also the Catholic Church.

							comment score: 4 | u/None
							Use the search bar, it's a frequently asked question here

					comment score: 4 | u/None
					Do you know history at all? Women fought for the right to be in a
					workplace in the US in particular. During the ww2 women tool all
					the men's jobs, and thanks to women, America was able to function
					and produce. Moreover, women ALWAYS worked as hard as men, if not
					harder, throughout history. It's just their labor was and still
					is under-appreciated and taken for granted.

	comment score: 14 | u/PeppermintLane
	Hahahahaha most of the men I’ve known have been awful judges of
	character who have at best not noticed the creepy behaviour of their
	friends and at worst, encouraged it.  And no, women didn’t usually
	have the men in their life filtering out the bad guys. Quite often
	they were entirely thrown under the bus or literally sold to them.

		comment score: 12 | u/None
		There was a recent post at CMV about banning an annoying character
		from a coffee shop. The ban was welcomed by all the female staff,
		while male staff were conflicted on the matter and thought maybe
		it's too much.  It's so fucking telling, really, how male
		solidarity, or indifference to misogyny, or simple inability to
		empathize with women make men horrible judges of other men when it
		comes to their treatment of women

			comment score: -6 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
			Obviously there was nothing really bad about the guy but he was
			physically unattractive so women judged him more negatively that
			the males.

				comment score: 7 | u/None
				You forgot /s?

		comment score: 3 | u/Ayeprihl
		All of this!!!

		comment score: -7 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
		>who have at best not noticed the creepy behaviour of their friends
		and at worst, encouraged it. Honourable men notice it, don't
		participate in it and call them out on their bad behaviour. The guys
		you are focussing on are not indicative of all men. Or maybe those
		are the only men you notice because you are secretly attracted to
		them but hate the fact that you are.

			comment score: 7 | u/JadedPoison
			Too many men do this for it to “only be a a handful”.

				comment score: -2 | u/None
				[removed]

					comment score: 8 | u/JadedPoison
					LMFAO. Look, MGTOWer, “chads” aren’t real. Stop deluding
					yourself. Additionally, stop pretending you’re here in good
					faith.  >“When you found out the truth about women.” The only
					truth about women is that they’re human beings. Why are you on a
					feminist sub, trying so desperately to prove that “women need men
					for dating” anyway? Because your bullshit didn’t fly on other
					subs?  I thought you were supposed to be going your own way,
					already? Is sitting around in your tinfoil hats talking about how
					women are just too stupid to find “good men” (which I assure you,
					you are not one, if you were you wouldn’t have to try so hard to
					claim you are.)— really, truly, a proper endeavor to “go your own
					way”?

			comment score: 7 | u/PeppermintLane
			Oh, you got me. I guess the total 2’s who allowed a guy to act out
			a sexual assault scene at a DnD event I went to recently are
			secretly super honourable.

			comment score: 3 | u/Ayeprihl
			Lol and you think you’re one of these ‘honourable’ men?

	comment score: 12 | u/Ayeprihl
	Social media and online dating has online helped me to weed out the
	assholes in a safer way, without ever seeing them in person.  There
	is no difference between trusting a person in tinder and trusting a
	person you met while drunk at a club, but at least I can screen
	someone online a bit more thoroughly before trusting them. And if I
	took the advice of men, I’d probably be in a shitty relationship with
	someone who thinks buying flowers after he fucks up is the epitome of
	romance instead of the respectful and loving equal I found on my own.

		comment score: -5 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
		>but at least I can screen someone online a bit more thoroughly
		before trusting them. But how do you know you are judging their true
		character or the fake persona they are putting forward through
		social media? In person, it's a lot easier to verify someones true
		intentions. My point is that you are judging their character solely
		through their own self promotion (instagram) rather than how they
		fit into a social group i.e. at a party.  >And if I took the advice
		of men I'm not saying that taking the advice of men is a good
		option. However if a man is well respected by other men i.e. a
		police officer that has risen up the job heirachy through integrity
		by being promoted by other males and females, surely that's a better
		judge of his character than social media.

			comment score: 11 | u/Ayeprihl
			Because of the language they use. Their photos. How long they’re
			willing to chat with me before meeting. Even the emojis they use.
			And no lol. A cop who’s male mates think he’s a good bloke is not
			someone I would date. Men (generally speaking) don’t care if their
			mates are misogynistic when it comes to choosing them as mates. Men
			are the worst judges of character for other men.  We live misogyny
			every day. We can spot it a mile away.  And yes, occasionally we
			all have lapses in judgement. But at least I don’t think a cop with
			some friends is the epitome of a respectable man...

				comment score: 0 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
				>Their photos. How can you judge a man's character by their
				photos? They could just be posting them for likes. Or to
				manipulate women into thinking they are attractive. The
				representation of a person online and off are completely
				different. It's a lot more difficult to deceive a woman in real
				life than it is online.  >Men (generally speaking) don’t care if
				their mates are misogynistic when it comes to choosing them as
				mates. I get your point however surely you would able to spot if a
				guy was like this in person in a social setting such as a party. I
				don't know how you could figure this out on social media or
				someones online dating profile.

					comment score: 12 | u/Ayeprihl
					You can tell by their photos because most men aren’t master
					manipulators. You can see their clothes, their posture, their
					facial expressions and the people they hang out with. And you can
					see the person they want to portray which shows more about their
					values than anything really doesn’t it? I’m not sure why you are
					so adamant to discount my lived experience. I wasn’t born
					yesterday. I work in social media and communications. I’m a
					millennial. I know how social media works.  The fact you think
					that you could trick me just by choosing your photos careful and
					not calling me a c*** or whatever is super cute.

						comment score: -2 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
						>choosing your photos careful All guys AND women do this. Look
						at your average college girl who has a curated profile of party
						pictures wearing revealing clothing to attract male attention.

							comment score: 9 | u/Ayeprihl
							Duh that’s my point. Well, not about the photos attracting men,
							that’s just some weird thing men have with believing everything
							we do is for their benefit.  But yes, social media is a
							highlight reel. We all know this. You aren’t dropping hectic
							truth bombs here. Sorry but you’re not as good a judge of
							Boyfriends as a woman is.

								comment score: -1 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
								You admit that judging a guy by his highlight reel compared to
								who he actually is in real life is more accurate and
								trustworthy. I don’t think you should be the one insulting
								me...

									comment score: 10 | u/Ayeprihl
									If you think people aren’t putting an act on when they’re out
									in public you are mistaken.  All I’m saying is that you
									aren’t some fucking all knowing saviour of womankind here to
									pick out the best boyfriends for us all. I mean come on, you
									hang out on MGTOW. You have terrible taste in men.

	comment score: 10 | u/JadedPoison
	That’s gonna be an “oof” from me. I love how you tried to ask this on
	other subs, and when it didn’t work out you headed here to try it.
	Like, really?

		comment score: -4 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
		They have a comment karma threshold. It automatically got moderated
		out. Such a clever comment you posted though. Well done.

	comment score: 11 | u/JulieCrone
	Straight men generally aren’t seeing how fellow men act in the
	context of one on one interactions with women so there is a lot of
	information they don’t have.  There have been plenty of cases of men
	who treat women terribly but to other men they seem like a great guy.
	Then there are guys who aren’t all the popular with Todd and Steve
	but are great when it comes to relationships.  Asking a straight guy
	to vet a man as a romantic interest makes about as much sense to me
	as asking a cis man for bra recommendations.  I have a feeling we may
	have wildly different priorities.

		comment score: -1 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
		>Straight men generally aren’t seeing how fellow men act in the
		context of one on one interactions with women so there is a lot of
		information they don’t have. At parties they are. If a guy acts
		differently around women than his friends it is obvious to everyone
		and that guy isn't usually very trustworthy. His friends
		subconsciously note this and respect him less.

			comment score: 9 | u/JulieCrone
			'one on one interactions with women'

				comment score: -1 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
				Any one on one interaction with a woman is definitely not the best
				way to vet out a guy so women need to stop falling for it.

					comment score: 6 | u/JulieCrone
					Just curious, do you think straight men should rely on women's
					opinions about who they should pair up with?

						comment score: -1 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
						I'm not sure. Sexual selection in women and men is a lot
						different. Men rely more on physical indicators while women also
						rely on social signals.  I'm not saying women should pay
						attention to men's opinions as all. I'm saying that a guy who
						has a trustworthy, loyal group of friends is a good indicator
						that the guy is also of that type.

							comment score: 6 | u/JulieCrone
							> Men rely more on physical indicators while women also rely on
							social signals.  Then wouldn't that mean women are better at
							selecting partners based on how they interact socially and are
							less likely to base who they select on looks? > I'm saying that
							a guy who has a trustworthy, loyal group of friends is a good
							indicator that the guy is also of that type.  Tells me he has
							good friends, but doesn't mean he will necessarily be great to
							romantic partners.

								comment score: 0 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
								>Then wouldn't that mean women are better at selecting
								partners based on how they interact socially and are less
								likely to base who they select on looks? Perhaps yes. My point
								in my OP was that social media and online dating is disrupting
								this.   >Tells me he has good friends, but doesn't mean he
								will necessarily be great to romantic partners. I'm not saying
								to listen to the person you are dating whether he tells you he
								has good friends. I'm saying it's probably better for you to
								judge his friends in real life and see whether they are
								trustworthy rather than trying to guess through social media.

									comment score: 6 | u/JulieCrone
									> Men can judge a mans character better compared to that of
									women judging the character of men.  That was from your OP.
									So which is it, that women are relying on social signals, or
									women are blinded by physical characteristics?

	comment score: 10 | u/None
	I read your other posts and replies here, and you are such a typical
	case, that I cannot resist.  Look, I understand that it's can be hard
	for an average or below average man to find a date. We get it. Incels
	ideology is very tempting. It is also embarrassing and extreme, so
	you chose to follow it's younger brother in disguise - mgtow. You
	think you have discovered some inate truth about women and you
	pretend you "going your own way" is a choice and not just a way to
	save your ego and declare sour grapes.  But lying to yourself and
	pretending you don't need anyone, while adopting extremely
	misogynistic viewpoints won't make your life better. Because that's
	what your post is - transparently misogynistic with a poor attempt to
	paint it as objective.  Saying that women just cannot judge for
	themselves and follow superficial and fake status symbols, or simply
	hot handsome men, is not just wrong, it's extreme projection.
	Statistically, it's mostly men who make funclubs around online
	influencers, buy their bath water and pay for their private
	snapchats. Women do that but in a much, much smaller scale. It's
	usually men who thirst over women that exploit their beauty, and
	spend their salaries on these women in return for really nothing.
	Women, on the other hand, are much more cautious of men for obvious
	reasons, so they are much more objective in judging character than
	men, but still very subjective, just like all humans are.  You think
	you can find a secret of how to make your social media page, so that
	women can like you, but you will be doing exactly what you pretend to
	despise - create a fake attractive image of yourself, bullshit people
	see through immediately. What might really help is for you to drop
	the misogyny and attempt to see women as they are - different,
	complex and unique people.

		comment score: -2 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
		>for an average or below average man to find a date. What are the
		indicators of an average man? I'm more educated than the average man
		(Ivy league school), more creative than the average person by far
		(musically and in the visual arts), dress well. However, if most
		women (as found evident by the comments in this page) trust social
		media more compared to real life, how is someone supposed to
		showcase these things who doesn't feel comfortable on social media.
		My point is, how are men who are attractive in real life who don't
		use social media supposed to get their foot through the door to
		showcase these things they are good at. Women will automatically
		think that if it's not on their social media, they can't do it and
		they are just below average compared to a guy who lies about it on
		social media.

			comment score: 6 | u/None
			>What are the indicators of an average man?  I was talking about
			visual appearance, since this is what seriously bothers you
			apparently. I have no idea what you look like, but judging by your
			message and post history, you have poor opinion of yourself. God,
			forget about the social media, you are seriously bothered about it,
			aren't you? Many people are deleting their personal accounts or
			keeping them half empty, unless they are showcasing their
			business/art and so on. There is no more hype about it left, unlike
			5 years ago. Nobody cares about social media as much as you do, so
			stop projecting your insecurities on others. Moreover, social media
			is a good indication of how sane a person is. If they have little
			to no info, that's fine, but if they constantly post about some
			rage porn news, anti-abortion or other conservative bullshit, it's
			a nice visible red flag. Stop treating women like they are some
			misunderstood creatures from another planet. They make same
			conclusions about people as men do. You don't have special
			knowledge of men that women don't have, just because you have a
			penis. And sexual attraction works against you really. Women aren't
			sexually attracted to majority of men they don't know, women's
			sexual attraction grows as they know a person better.

				comment score: 1 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
				>God, forget about the social media, you are seriously bothered
				about it, aren't you? Well judging from the comments on this post,
				women think that social media is a better judge of a man than real
				life.

					comment score: 1 | u/None
					A lot of people don't have active social media and it's fine. But
					if they have one, sometimes it tells something about the person
					which is very useful especially for women who take a big risk
					dating someone.

	comment score: 6 | u/JustWhatAmI
	There are manipulative people, the gender doesn't matter. Further,
	the medium doesnt matter either Countless people have presented a
	front, engaged a partner and then manipulated them. This happened
	before social media/online dating. Sadly, it will probably continue
	well into whatever the future of social interaction looks like

		comment score: -3 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
		Thank you for being reasonable. I agree with you, people have always
		presented a front. Do you think it's gotten worse because of social
		media?

			comment score: 4 | u/JustWhatAmI
			That's really hard to say. From what I'm reading from other
			responders, online dating creates a bit of distance and gives room
			for further examination  If I meet someone new at a party and I'm
			feeling chemistry, there's a snap decision to be made, or at least
			it can feel like it. Especially if the person is coming on strong
			or being manipulative. I also only have the information I gathered
			in the few minutes we've spent together to judge the totality of
			their character  Now, if I match with someone online, or see them
			on social media, not only do I have time on my side, but
			information. I can browse their post history. Maybe I can see their
			friends. I can take my time and really see what my gut says. I can
			engage, and get out the minute I get a bad feeling, with far less
			fear than if I did so in real life

				comment score: 0 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
				I agree. I still think the best way is to perhaps meet someone in
				person through some sort of hobby group and slowly get introduced
				to their friends in person. Therefore you can build an accurate
				representation of that person through time that is grounded in the
				real world.  What are some red flags you would notice about
				someone on their facebook/instagram account? Is there anything in
				particular? Is not being that active on social media a red flag?
				Or not getting many likes?

					comment score: 6 | u/JustWhatAmI
					>I still think the best way is to perhaps meet someone in person
					through some sort of hobby group and slowly Different strokes for
					different folks. Do what works for you >What are some red flags
					you would notice A manipulator hides all the red flags. I rely on
					my gut feelings

						comment score: 0 | u/mae1995111 (OP)
						What if a guy seems perfect in person but online they seem shady
						but that's only because they are a private person?

							comment score: 2 | u/JustWhatAmI
							Probably ok? Too theoretical, sorry

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskFeminists | u/None | 0 comments | 2020-04-22 | https://redd.it/g5ubz1
POST TITLE: What are your opinions on misandry?
[deleted]

-----------------------------------------

post score: 0 | r/AskSocialScience | u/None | 1 comments | 2019-02-08 | https://redd.it/aoki5b
POST TITLE: Is racism and oppression the same thing?
[deleted]

-----------------------------------------

